THE CRISIS 


A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES 


Volume One MARCH, 1911 Number Five 


Edited by W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS, with the co-operation of Oswald Garrison Villard, 
J. Max Barber, Charles Edward Russell, Kelly Miller, W. S. Braithwaite and M. D. Maclean. 





















































les res * oe oe 
= =(MS DATASET 
-Egyptian Portrait of One of the Black Kings of the Upper Nile, 
Ra-Maat-Neb, Builder of Pyramid No. 17. (After Lepsius.) 


PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE 


National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
AT TWENTY VESEY STREET NEW YORK CITY 


ONE DOLLAR A YEAR TEN CENTS A COPY 








THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the 
of COLORED PEOPLE 


ADVANCEMENT 


OBJECT.—The National Association 
for the Advancement of Colored People 
is an organization composed of men and 
women of all races and classes who be- 
lieve that the present widespread increase 
of prejudice against colored races and 
particularly the denial of rights and 
opportunities to ten million Americans of 
Negro descent is not only unjust and a 
menace to our free institutions, but also 
is a direct hindrance to World Peace 
and the realization of Human Brother- 
hood. 


METHODS.—-The encouragement of 
education and efforts for social uplift; the 
dissemination of literature; the holding of 
mass meetings; the maintenance of a lec- 
ture bureau; the encouragement of vigi- 
lance committees; the investigation of com- 
plaints; the maintenance of a Bureau of 
Information; the publication of THE 
Crisis; the collection of facts and publi- 
cation of the truth. 


ORGANIZATION.—AII interested 
persons are urged to join our organization 
—associate membership costs $1, and 
contributing and sustaining members pay 


from $2 to $25 a year. 
FUNDS.—We need $10,000 a year 


for running expenses of this work and par- 
ticularly urge the necessity of gifts to help 
on our objects. 


OFFICERS.—The officers of the 
organization are: 


National President — Mr. 
Storey, Boston, Mass. 


Moorfield 


Chairman of the Executive Committee— 
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New 
York. 


Treasurer—Mr. 


New York. 


Director of Pu'slicity and Research—Dr. 
W. E. B. DuBois, New York. 


Executive Secretary—Miss Frances Blas- 
coer, New York. 


John E. Miublholland, 


Mention THE 


COMMITTEE.—Our work is car- 


ried on under the auspices of the follow- 
ing General Committee, in addition to the 
officers named: 


*Miss Gertrude Barnum, New York. 
*Rev. W. H. Brooks, New York. 

Prof. John Dewey, New York. 

Miss Maud R. Ingersoll, New York. 

Mrs. Florence Kelley, New York. 
*Mr. Paul Kennaday, New York. 
"Mrs. F. R. Keyser, New York. 

Dr. Chas. Lenz, New York. 

Mr. Jacob W. Mack, New York. 
*Mrs. M. D. Maclean, New York 

Rev. Horace G. Miller, New York. 

Mrs. Max Morgenthau, Jr., New York. 
Mr. James F. Morton, Jr., ‘New York. 

Mr. Henry Moskowitz, New York. 

Miss Leonora O'Reilly, New York. 
*Rev. A. Clayton Powell, New York. 
*Mr. Charies Edward Russell, New York. 
Mr. Jacob H. Schiff, New York. 

Prof. E. R. A, Seligman, New York 
*Rev. Joseph Silverman, New York. 

Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, New York. 
Mrs. Henry Villard, New York. 

Miss Lillian D. Wald, New York. 
*William English Walling, New York. 
*Bishop Alexander Walters, New York. 

Dr. Stephen S. Wise, New York. 
*Rev. John Haynes Holmes, Breet a 2: ¥. 
Miss M. R. Lyons, Brooklyn, N v 
*Miss M. W. Ovington, Brooklyn, nm. ¥ 
*Dr. O. M. Waller, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Mrs. M. H. Talbert, Bufialo, N. Y. 

Hon. Thos. M. Osborne, Auburn, N. Y. 
*Mr. W. L. Bulkley, Ridgefield Park, N. J 
Mr. George W. Crawford, New Haven, Conn. 
Miss Maria Baldwin, Boston, Mass. 

Mr. Francis J. Garrison, Boston, Mass. 

Mr. Archibald H. Grimke, Boston, Mass. 
*Mr. Albert E. Pillsbury, Boston, Mass. 

Mr. Wm. Munroe Trotter, Boston, Mass. 
Dr. Horace Bumstead, Brookline, Mass. 
Miss Elizabeth C. Carter, New Bedford, Mass. 
Prest. Chas. T. Thwing, Cleveland, O. 

Mr. Chas. W. Chesnutt, Cleveland, O. 
Prest. H. C. King, Oberlin, O. 

Prest. W. S. Scarborough, Wilberforce, O. 
*Miss gone Addams, Chicago, III. 
*Mrs. Ida B. Wells Barnett, Chicago, III. 
*Dr. C. E. Bentley, Chicago, Ill. 

Miss Sophronisba Breckenridge, Chicago, II. 
Mr. Clarence Darrow, Chicago, III. 
*Mrs. Celia Parker Woolley, Chicago, III. 
*Dr. N. F. Mossell, Philadelphia, Pa. 
*Dr. Wm. A. Sinclair, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Miss Susan Wharton, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mr. R. R. Wright, Jr., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mr. W. Justin Carter, Harrisburg, Pa. 

Rev. Harvey Johnson, D.D., Baltimore, Md. 
Hon. Wm. S. Bennett, Washington, a <. 
Mr. L. M. Hershaw, Washington, D. C. 
Prof. Kelly Miller, Washington, a ¢ 
Prof. Moore, Washington, D. C. 
peo W. P. Stafford, Washington, D. C. 
“7 Mary. Church Terrell, Washington, D. G 
*Rev. J. ilton Waldron, Washington, D. C. 
Prest. John Hope, Atlanta, Ga. 

Mr. Leslie P. iil, Manassas, Va. 


* Executive Committee. 


OFFICES: 
Suite 610, 20 Vesey Street, New York. 





Crisis. 








THE CRISIS 


A Record of the Darker Races 


Contents for March, 1911 


ALONG THE COLOR LINE 
RRS Tere rr 


THE N. A. A. C. P 
EDITORIAL 


CAR rue. Ep Fale Peary Adami... ..o0.cccsceccwcsess 18 
BALLADE DES BELLES MILATRAISSES. By Rosalie 


ee 


AFRICAN CIVILIZATION. By M. D. Maclean........... 23 
“DAGGANCOURT.” By Lloyd Osbourne and Henry E. Baker. 


ROMS TRAMP a bse peeve eves 


TALKS ABOUT WOMEN. By Mrs. John E. Milholland. a 


WHAT TO READ.......... 
A PROSPEROUS VIRGINIA BANK 





Actual Circulation of THE Crisis 


November ....... 
December 


= whesae tee ea 1,000 copies 
Sense telee A Sacaie Dea cesee ts 2,500 copies 


NE ss chon e eae eee aus es 3,000 copies 
February . .4,000 copies 


hive eatcie 6,000 copies 


Agents wanted who can furnish reliable references. 
Entered as second-class matter in the post office at New York City. 





COMMENTS ON THE CRISIS 


“I am much impressed with the appearance of 
your new monthly sangeet, = 
J. Jounson, 
Har un “University, 
_Cambridge, Mass. 
“The paper is excellent and I hope I may be 
instrumental in securing other subscribers.” 
BertHA JoHNSTON, 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 


“It is a splendid effort, courageous in its utter- 
ances and manly in its defense of the man of 
color.” Gro. KE. Wisecan, Jr, 


Brooklyn, N. Y. 


“I read the first number of your magazine, THE 
Crisis, with care and much appreciation yester- 
day.” W. If. Sort, 

Executive Secretary, 

The Peace Society of the City of New Y« ork. 


“I have read every word of the first number of 
Tue Crisis with a relish equal to the zeal of the 
production.’ J. Witsur Norxts, 

Sioux City, Ia. 

“T have looked over the matter arranged for 
Tue Crisis and it all seems to me to be excellent. 
I cannot suggest any change. I shall be glad to 
contribute to the magazine.” 

CrHarLes Eowarp Russet, 
New York. 


“Its page of race bibliography will be especially 
helpful to students and study club workers.” 
PAULINE SMITH, 
Detroit, Mich. 


“Tre Crisis fills a long-felt want. It should be 
indispensable to every patriotic American.’ 
R. C. Epmonpson, 
Washington, D. C. 
“T have just read the last issue of THe Crisis. 
I find it valuable for the series of facts that it 
presents in succinct form I] have read it with 
deep interest and consider it of distinct value.” 
Witt P. THikkKiFLD, 
President Howard University, 
Washington, D. C. 





“I like Tue Crisis. ‘his first nt oH uber is good 
in itself, and is full of great promise. 
Cuartes T. THWING, 
President Western Reserve University, 
Adelbert College, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 


“Tt makes a dignified, informing and convincing 
argument against color prejudice. 
Samvet <A. Pease, 
\ttorney, Brooklyn. 





“I feel that it supplies a long-felt necessity. 
1 am trying to induce all lovers of fair play for 
the human race to subscribe to it.’ 

=. M. Dent, 
Dept. Commerce and Labor. 





THE CRISIS ADVERTISER 


ai (I 4 l 127-129 West 53d Street 

arsha Ki nir Telephones 4693-4694 Columbus 
SPECIAL FEATURE BEGINNING FEBRUARY 1 

Breakfast, 7:30 to 12:30, 30c. Luncheon, 12:30 to 3 p.m., 30c. 


Regular Dinner, 6 to 8, 35c. 
Special Course Dinner Every Sunday and Holidays, 50c. 


Service and Food Unsurpassed Anywhere Good Music—Vocal and Instrumental 


Shell Fish a Specialty Restaurant Open All Night 
J. L. MARSHALL, Proprietor 


We Print THE CRISIS 


We Print for the Vogue Magazine 


and refer by permission to Mr. Conde 
Nast, Publisher of 


VOGUE MAGAZINE 


Wedding Invitations Printed and 
Engraved. Society and Commer- 
cial Printing a Specialty. A postal 
or the telephone (Lenox 6667) brings 


us to your door. 


ROBERT N. WOOD 


202 EAST 99th STREET NEW YORK 





*Phone 2877 Lenox 
White Rose Workin Girls’ Go Young Man, have You a Crade? 
Ht r 0 r , me By our method we teach the Barber Trade in 
217 EAST 86TH STREET ix wooks. 7 
Bet. Second and: Third Avenues oue, ou a Seana ta plese ras a ae ens a 
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls, particular rT oe ns bas 
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home , , ep cc 
solicits orders for working dresses, aprons, etc. NE Ww YORK BARBER SCHOOL, 
Address: Costetto & Wise, 
MRS. FRANCES R. KEYSER, Supt. Cor. Bowery and Rivington St., New York City. 


Mention THe Crisis. 





eet 


ibus 


City. 





Along the Color Line 


POLITICAL. 

Something of a sensation was provided 
in the Senate on February 10, when Mr. 
Root, of New York, spoke on the race ques- 
tion. 

The incident arose in connection with 
extended remarks made by Senator Root 
in advocacy of the Sutherland amendment 
to the Borah resolution. The amendment 
provides for Federal supervision over sen- 
atorial elections, such as now exists over 
congressional elections. The original reso- 
lution provides State control. 


The New York senator said that the 
national government could not afford to 
barter away the privilege of supervising 
senatorial elections in the South if need 
should arise for such supervision. 

Also in speaking of the observance of 
the fourteenth and fifteenth amendments 
to the Constitution, he said: ‘There are 
some things done in the South which may 
yet make it necessary for the government 
to exercise the power given it in the Con- 
stitution.” 

Later in the day, Mr. Bacon, of Georgia, 
revived the Southern question. Repeating 
the remarks of the New Yorker, Mr. Bacon 
addressed himself directly to Mr. Root 
and asked, “What are the things to which 
the senator refers?” 

Mr. Root’s response was in no way 
evasive or indirect. Recalling the sub- 
stance of his previous remarks, he said 
that he had had reference to the voluntary 
surrender by the government of the power 
to enforce the protection of the suffrage 
privileges of the Southern Negroes. 

Facing Senator Bacon and speaking with 
great deliberation, Mr. Root enumerated 
the peonage system, the lynching of 
Negroes, and the disfranchising provisions, 
such as the “grandfather” clauses in the 
constitutions of many of the Southern 
States, as some of the things calculated 
to deprive the black man of that equal pro- 
tection which the Constitution guarantees. 

“The people of the United States are 
willing to fold their hands and wish the 
Southern people Godspeed in working out 
their delicate problem, so long as they 
do so in kindness; but if there should be 
such oppression as to call for the exer- 
cise of the power of the United States to 
enforce the amendments, that power will 
be exercised, and it ought to be,” he said. 

“Does the senator contend for the power 
of Congress to annul laws now on the 
statute books of the States, such as the 
grandfather clause?” asked Mr. Bacon. 

“Without the slightest doubt,” said Mr. 
Root. 





“Well,” returned Mr. Bacon, “the sen- 
ator has certainly put us on notice.” 

“T meant to put you and also the coun- 
try on notice,” replied Mr. Root. 


On February 16 Senator Borah, of 
Idaho, spoke on the same question. The 
senator took issue with Mr. Root and 
claimed that his resolution, without the 
Sutherland amendment, does not endanger 
the Negro. He contended that, as the 
resolution stands, notwithstanding it gives 
the State legislatures control of senatorial 
elections, Congress still would have the 
right to interfere in protection of any 
citizen whose right of franchise had been 
interfered with. 

Mr. Borah expressed deep regret that 
the race question had been brought into 
the controversy, and asserted that its 
introduction was intended only to imperil 
the direct election of senators. 


“T wonder how long the North is going 
to play the hypocrite and the moral coward 
on this question,” he said 

He insisted that a call of the roll of 
the Northern States in which there is any 
appreciable number of Negroes would dem- 
onstrate that the North had not dealt more 
leniently with the Negro than had other 
sections, 

“The Negro has been used as a political 
football about as long as our own sense 
of decency and his developing intelligence 
will permit. We should no longer mis- 
treat him, but we should have the courage 
to inform him as to the real situation. 
We should tell him the truth and conceal 
nothing. 


“The Negro is beginning to realize that 
the white man of the North is of the same 
race as the white man of the South, and 
that in his blood is the virus of dominion 
and power. He should know that while 
his slave chains have been broken the 
chains of industry are being forged around 
him and will continue to hold him unless 
he himself can break them. 

“When the exigencies of debate are over 
it will be found that no measure will be 
offered in the Senate to protect any sup- 
posed right of the colored man anywhere. 
If those who are interested will turn to the 
Constitution they will find there the one 
universal rule of equality, the only rule 
to be applied to the Negro, and the only 
rule under which we can legislate. If 
applied it will be proved to be the correct 
rule, the rule for all of us.” 

The Sutherland Amendment was adopted 
February 24 by a vote of 50 to 37. The 
Borah bill was, therefore, finally defeated. 





6 THE CRISIS 


President Taft and the United States 
Supreme Court were denounced at the 
session of the Council of Confederated 
Methodist Bishops in Mobile, attended by 
colored bishops from all parts of the 
United States. 

Bishop H. M. Turner, of Atlanta, Ga., 
said: “The Negro has no rights in this 
country, The so-called Supreme Court of 
the United States has always been robbing 
the Negro of his rights, and Congress 
and the President of the United States sit 
silently by without saying a word.” 


Governor Blease, of South Carolina, 
among his other anti-Negro activities, has 
issued a proclamation revoking the com- 
missions of all notaries public in South 
Carolina for the purpose of eliminating the 
colored notaries, Business men have been 
greatly embarrassed by the Governor’s 
sweeping metltods of carrying out his 
views. 


An ordinance providing for the further 
segregation of the races in Richmond, Va., 
has been prepared by Councilman A. L. 
Vonderlehr. City Attorney Pollard has 
reviewed the proposed ordinance and pro- 
nounces it constitutional and legal in every 
way. It follows the general plan of the 
Baltimore ordinance. The Baltimore segre- 
gation ordinance has been declared illegal 
in the local courts on a technicality, but 
a new one has been drafted. 


During the discussion of reapportionment 
of membership in Congress a plan to 
reduce Southern representation in States 
which disfranchised the Negro was urged 
by Messrs. Bennet and Olcott, of New 
York. It was opposed by Mr. Gaines, of 
West Virginia, and others, and was de- 
feated. 


Representative Edward Green, the only 
Negro in the Illinois Assembly, held up 
and perhaps has defeated a joint resolution 
asking the Illinois delegation in Congress 
to support the demand for a Constitutional 
amendment to provide for the election of 
Senators by direct vote of the people. 

Representative Green told the Judiciary 
Committee that the effect will be practically 
to disfranchise the Negro in every State 
in which there is a “grandfather” clause 
in the Constitution. 


South Carolina is discussing a proposal 
to work all able-bodied convicts in the 
chain gang, segregating Negroes and whites, 
however. In the debate the statement was 
made by Senator Clifton, of Sumter, that 
the State farms are unhealthy places to live 
upon. Senator Lawson, repeating Senator 
Clifton’s assertions about the conditions of 
the State farms, was answered that “Ne- 
groes could live there all right.” Senator 
Lawson objected to the sending of the 
convicts to the farms if they are such un- 
healthy places that they could not be sold. 


The ordinance introduced into the Kan- 
sas City (Mo.) Council providing for the 
segregation of white and colored residents 
was defeated. It was returned to the 
lower house by the Public Improvements 
Committee with the recommendation that 
it should not be passed. 


A bill to prohibit intermarriage of white 
and colored persons (including Negroes 
and Indians) has been introduced in the 
Massachusetts legislature by Francis W. 
Peabody. The petition states that the 
Negroes are increasing twice as fast as the 
whites. 


The intermarriage of whites with Jap- 
anese or any other “colored” race is pro- 
hibited in a bill passed by the legislature 
of Nevada. It makes the performance of 
such a marriage by a minister or justice 
of the peace a misdemeanor. Similar bills 
by preconcerted arrangement are pending 
in Washington and Michigan. 


Oscar W. Underwood, of Birmingham, 
Ala., has been’ chosen chairman of the 
Ways and Means Committee of the next 
Congress. In an interview with a Wash- 
ington correspondent he mentioned that in 
Wilcox county Mr, Taft received only two 
votes. As the colored men are Republican 
and “all the white men Democrats,” pre- 
sumably the two votes were cast by col- 
ored men who “met the educational and 
property” qualification. The census of 1900 
gives Wilcox county 5,967 Negro males 
over 21 years of age. Mr. Underwood 
does not mention what became of the other 
5,965 voters. But as he is sure that the 
Negro will have to be still further elimi- 
nated from‘ politics the outlook for the 
solitary two is not hopeful. 


THE COURTS. 

Federal indictments were returned at 
Guthrie, Oklahoma, on January 28, against 
Duke W. Jeffries, a Democrat, and Wil- 
lard Smith, a Republican, both wealthy 
farmers of this county, charging them with 
offences against the franchise and against 
the civil rights of Negroes. The specific 
charge against the men, who were election 
officials at Seward when the general elec- 
tion was held on November 8, is that they 
enforced the provisions of the “grand- 
father” clause amendment to the State con- 
stitution. The indictments were returned 
as a result of the recent instruction to the 
grand jury by Judge Cotteral who held that 
the federal constitution is supreme over 
any State law in granting the elective fran- 
chise, and also as a result of the statement, 
issued prior to the recent election, by Judge 
John Embry, United States attorney here, 
to the effect that violations of the election 
law, reported to him, would be prosecuted. 


The United States Circuit Court of Ap- 
peals decided, on February 11, that Okla- 


homa’s “Jim Crow” law is constitutional. 


Lh ow eet 


om eta tea «> & AS 


~~ + € =e A fA 


jn tos ae ak ok 6 oe UA 





eweso 8 


SS Ww 


at 
st 
iI- 
ry 
th 
ist 
fic 
on 
a 
ey 


n- 


he 
at 
er 
n- 
nt, 
ge 
re, 
on 
ed. 


\p- 
la- 
ial, 





ALONG THE 


Judge E. B. Adams filed the opinion which 
was concurred in by Judge W. C. Hook. 
Judge W. H. Sanborn, presiding judge, 
filed a dissenting opinion. The court held 
that the Oklahoma law is not a violation 
of the fourteenth amendment of the Con- 
stitution. The Negroes who brought the 
action declared they were being denied 
equal protection under the laws. The case 
originated in the United States District 
Court of Oklahoma, where Negroes sought 
an injunction to restrain the operation of 
the law which provided that all common 
carriers must have separate coaches and 
waiting rooms for colored people. 

Judge Morris, of Baltimore, gave on 
February 3 another decision favorable to 
Negro suffrage in the test civil case for 
$5,000, brought against Charles E. Myers 
and A. Claud Kalmey, two registration 
clerks of Annapolis, who refused Negroes 
the right of registration. Judge Morris, 
sitting as a jury, handed down a verdict for 
$250 each to William H. Howard, Robert 
Brown and John B. Anderson, three 
colored citizens of Annapolis. 

The case has been in the courts for 
some time, and has assumed the nature 
of a test case of the suffrage clause incor- 
porated in the Annapolis charter. The 
hearing on February 3 was purely formal 
and only a step to the Supreme Court 
which will decide the legal status of the 
Annapolis disfranchising clause. 


Miss Pearl Morris sued the Alabama and 
Vicksburg Railroad, under the Mississippi 
law, for $15,000 and won. As the basis for 
the suit Miss Morris alleged that she was 
sold a berth in a sleeping car in which 
three colored persons had berths. The 
case will go to the Supreme Court of the 
United States, attorneys for the road say, 
if the State Supreme Court upholds the 
recent decision. 

Miss Morris says the presence of the 
colored passengers caused her such “suf- 
fering and anguish” as to impair her 
health. 


Judge Ferguson, of Philadelphia, has 
ruled that the law did not require confec- 
tioners to sell soda water to colored peo- 
ple. The attorneys for the defendants 
raised the point that the law relating to 
racial distinction only applied to hotels and 
restaurants, and the judge held the point 


well taken. ————- 
EDUCATION. 

Ex-Governor Glenn, of North Carolina, 
has been speaking in the North in aid of 
the National Religious Training School, 
a colored institution of Durham, N. C. He 
advocates both industrial training and the 
higher education. 


It has been voted to increase the appro- 
priation for the Negro agricultural and 
industrial school to be erected in Davidson 
county, Tenn., from $60,000 to $80,000. 


COLOR LINE 7 


Governor Blease, of South Carolina, has 
demanded the resignation of Mr. Thomas 
E. Miller, president of the State Colored 
College at Orangeburg, on the ground of 
“pernicious activity in politics.’ Mr. Miller 
opposed Governor Blease’s election. His 
fifteen years’ administration of the college 
presidency bas had the hearty endorsement 
of the best white and colored people of the 
State. The Orangeburg Democrat, among 
other newspapers, commends his ability and 
discipline and says there has been no fric- 
tion between the colored students and the 
townspeople. 


The difficulty at the Government Hospital 
in Washington over the refusal of the 
white students to attend lectures with the 
colored boys of Howard University may 
be tentatively settled by providing two 
series of lectures. Dr. White, if the lectures 
are resumed, will take charge of the white 
students as before, using white patients; 
an assistant of Dr. White, using colored 
patients to illustrate his points, will lecture 
to the colored students. 

Dr. White has not time, he says, for two 
courses, but the demands of the white stu- 
dents were “backed up by the faculty” 
and he may consent to this arrangement. 


The sum of $60,000 has just been donated 
to Fisk University by the General Board 
of Education, whose headquarters are in 
New York. The gift is in response to an 
appeal sent out by the institution, which 
is anxious to raise $500,000. The Board, 
by this action, endorses the higher education 
of the Negro. 


A number of St. Louis men have signed 
a petition for incorporation of the Dunbar 
Normal, Industrial and Agricultural School 
for young Negro men and women, 


Work has been begun on a school for 
colored children in Savannah, under the 
management of the priests of the African 
Catholic Mission Society. 


The term for colored schools ended in 
and around Annapolis, Md., on January 31 
for lack of money. Colored citizens and 
some white are trying to raise enough: to 
reopen the school and keep the children off 
the streets. 


The trustees of the Phelps Stokes fund 
have been incorporated. Model tenements, 
the education of Negroes in this country 
and in Africa, North American Indians, 
and deserving white students, were provided 
for in the will of the late Caroline Phelps 
Stokes. 


SOCIAL UPLIFT. 


The State Federation of Colored Women 
in Alabama has had a bill introduced in 
the legislature asking for an appropriation 
for a reformatory for juvenile Negro law- 


8 THE CRISIS 


breakers which they have been supporting 
at Mt. Meigs. They give statistics showing 
that there are 105 reformatory schools in 
the United States, but only eleven of that 
number are in the Southern States; two 
in Virginia, two in Georgia, one in Florida, 
four in Tennessee, one in Texas, and one 
in Alabama. 

The Memphis Park Commissioners are 
having ‘trouble trying to select a location 
for a Negro park. Although the opinion 
throughout the city seems to favor such a 
park, every location suggested is opposed 
by property owners. 

Better care for the destitute Negro chil- 
dren of Virginia is treated in the annual 
report of the State Board of Charities and 
Correction. The Board states that it has 
now a temporary arrangement by which 
these children are placed in good family 
homes, and that it expects soon to have 
chartered an agency which will undertake 
to provide for children of this class. 

The Board, in investigating Virginia jails, 
says it noted an increase in the number of 
Negro children confined therein. This was 
attributed to the fact that there is no ade- 
quate provision for the care and training of 
destitute colored children. They are com- 
mitted to almshouses, where, for the most 
part, living in idleness, they become accus- 
tomed to getting their bread without being 
obliged to work for it, or left to shift for 
themselves, they steal to satisfy their 
hunger. 





To celebrate Lincoln Day the children of 
the Congregational churches of Greater 
Boston donated a sum which may amount 
to $25,000. The offerings of the children 
were sent to the headquarters of the Ameri- 
can Missionary Association, 20 Beacon 
Street, and will be distributed in the South 
for industrial work among the Negroes 
and the whites of the mountain districts. 








Objections to the present method of seg- 
regating whites and Negroes were offered 
at a mass meeting of colored citizens of 
New Orleans. A formation of a protective 
race organization was proposed and plans 
are now being considered. 

It was considered consistent by the speak- 
ers at the meeting that white teachers 
should be removed from Negro schools, if 
objections were raised regarding the atten- 
dance of Negro teachers at a lecture de- 
livered before a mixed audience of white 
and Negro people. It was also declared 
that the Negro had for many years blindly 
followed the Republican party regardless 
of a knowledge of the facts or policies 
involved. 

Objections were raised to the segregation 
methods used in street cars. It was argued 
that white people were given the privilege 
of moving the restriction signs back into 
the Negro reservation in case of a crowded 
car, and thus forcing the Negroes to stand. 


It was forbidden to the colored people to 
move the signs into the white portion in 
the case of a large crowd of Negroes. 

The Asculapian Medical Society, com- 
posed of nineteen colored physicians of 
Indianapolis, has outlined plans for taking 
up a systematic investigation and study of 
tuberculosis among the colored people of 
the city. Dr. A. H. Wilson, president of 
the society, said that the majority of the 
colored people is among the laboring class, 
with the poverty and exposure incident to 
many of this class; still, he believed that 
with a system of instruction as to the value 
of pure air, wholesome food and sanitation, 
much of their susceptibility to the disease 
would be removed. The society has as a 
member Dr. Theodore Kakaza, a native 
African, who was for years a student in 
the medical schools of London, where he 
had much experience in tuberculosis clinic 
work. Since coming to America he has 
completed a course in one of the leading 
medical universities of Canada. 

The Colored Teachers’ Association of 
New Orleans has subscribed $250 to be used 
in tuberculosis prevention work. It is pro- 
posed to make that amount the nucleus of a 
fund for the erection of a sanitarium for 
colored consumptives. 


The Negro Anti-tuberculosis League held 
its second annual convention at Shaw Uni- 
versity, Raleigh, N. C. 

Miss Anna Furness, a visiting nurse in 
Richmond, defended compulsory education 
before the Central Labor Council of that 
city. As to the argument against compul- 
sory education that it would throng the 
schools with Negro children and cause the 
whites to suffer, she made the declaration, 
from her observation, that the colored chil- 
dren now go to school and the white chil- 
dren do not. 


Dr. Taylor, health officer of Columbia 
County, Kentucky, reports that in the first 
year of his administration he fumigated 
thirty houses where deaths from consump- 
tion had occurred and in the following 
year performed a similar office for 
twenty-eight houses. In the first year nine 
of the thirty were the dwellings of colored 
people. Dr. Taylor says he gave talks to 
the Negroes on ventilation and sanitation,-- 
told them to put windows in their houses 
and to live much in the open air. He thinks 
this did some -good, as in the succeeding 
year he was called to fumigate only three 
houses where colored people had died of 
consumption. 





At a fire in Providence, R. I., many 
inmates of the burning building were saved 
by Henry Davis, the colored elevator boy, 
who, without stopping to investigate the 
alarm, ran his car rapidly up and down. 
When the fire engines came in response to a 





cu 
or 
ele 





thi 
an 


fo 
pr 


sti 
to 


di 
up 


to 


up 
N 





it 
a 
le 
le 
n, 


i. 


ia 
nt 
ed 


ng 
or 
ne 
ed 


IN,-s 
seS 
ks 
ng 
ree 


any 
ved 
OY, 
the 
wn. 
oa 


ALONG THE COLOR LINE 9 


double alarm, there were none left to res- 
cue, all escaping through their own agility 
on the escapes and the bravery of the 
elevator boy in sticking to his post. 


One of the speakers at the Thomas 
Paine centenary was Mr. Hubert H. Harri- 
son, who spoke on Paine’s place in the 
Deistical movement. The Truth Seeker 
says that he “has the reputation of being 
the most scholarly representative of his 
race in America. The intended pleasantry 
of the Rev. Mr. Marshall, that he honored 
a man who had such an encyclopedic know1- 
edge of literature as the previous speaker 
had displayed, might well have been spoken 
by him in all earnestness and sincerity.” 

THE CHURCH. 

The Rev. Abraham Grant, bishop of the 
African Methodist Episcopal Church, died 
on January 23, after a long illness, at his 
home in Kansas City, Kan. His wife, Lulu 
Rebecca Grant, died nine days before him. 

On learning of his death, through a tele- 
gram, President Taft replied: 

“Your telegram announcing the death of 
Bishop Grant received. I greatly deplore 
this, and extend to his family, his friends 
and those to whom he preached my heartfelt 
sympathy. Bishop Grant and I have been 
for some years associated in the work of 
promoting the education of Negroes in the 
South, and I came to know his high and 
sturdy qualities. His death is a real loss 
to his people.” 

Archbishop Ryan, of Philadelphia, who 
died last month, devoted much time to the 
upbuilding of the Sisterhood of the Blessed 
Sacrament, in association with the foun- 
dress, Mother Katherine Drexel, for the 
benefit of Negroes and Indians. 


After years of persistent work in raising 
funds and finally bringing the building to 
completion, the colored Catholics of St. 
Augustine now have a house of worship 
of their own. On February 5 the Rt. Rev. 
Wm. J. Kenny, Bishop of St. Augustine, 
formally dedicated the new church of St. 
Benedict, the Moor. 


ECONOMIC. 

The Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, Board 
of Trade has called the attention of the 
Interior Department to the influx of Negro 
settlers into the districts surrounding Ed- 
monton, asserting that they are driving out 
white settlers. During the last three years 
there has been a steady influx into Edmon- 
ton of colored people from the South, prin- 
cipally from Oklahoma. ‘This year they 
are starting to come in increasing numbers, 
and it is said that hundreds of them are 
heading northward. 

It is said that an attempt is to be made 
to colonize Negroes from the United States 
upon land in Mexico. A number of wealthy 
Negroes of Denver and Pueblo, Col., have 


organized the Southern Land and Develop- 
ment Company for the purpose of carrying 
out extensive colonization plans. The com- 
pany has purchased a large tract of land 
on the Champton River in the State of 
Campeche and has had it subdivided into 
small farming tracts. 

A theatre for colored people has been 
opened in Knoxville, Tenn. 





Wagino City, a town designated exclu- 
sively for Negroes, is being platted near 
Altheimer, Arkansas. A local paper says 
it is believed a village of at least 500 pop- 
ulation will be built up there within a year. 
Lots will be reserved for schools, churches, 
lodge halls, depot and other public build- 
ings. Adjoining the town site a half-mile 
race track is being graded and a grand 
stand and other buildings will be erected to 
hold an annual fair, 


The Negro Business Directory and Com- 
mercial Guide of Atlanta is the title of a 
volume compiled by W. B. Matthews. It 
gives full information concerning Negroes 
in business, churches and pastors, colleges 
and teachers, public and private schools, 
fraternal and secret societies. It shows 
that the colored people of Atlanta are con- 
ducting more than 100 different kinds of 
businesses; that there are more than 2,000 
separate places owned and controlled by 
them; that Atlanta has 40 professional men 
among its Negro population; one old line 
insurance company and six industrial insur- 
ance companies are entirely under their 
management. Among the _ establishments 
there are one bank, 12 drug stores, 60 tailor 
shops, 83 barber shops and 85 grocery 
stores, besides bakeries, wood and coal 
yards and _ undertaking establishments. 
There are also 80 hack lines and 125 dray- 
men. 


CRIME. 


Negroes living at Hominy, Okla., have 
been forced to leave the town. A south- 
bound passenger car arriving at Oklahoma 
City was crowded with refugees who fled 
fearing for their lives. Not a Negro is 
left in the section. 

Night riders around Hominy several days 
before served notice that all Negroes must 
leave the town at once, and, to emphasize 
the warning, they exploded dynamite in 
the neighborhood of Negro houses. Some 
months ago land speculators sold land 
around Hominy to Negroes for cotton 
farms. The local whites protested, and 
their dislike of the colored immigrants re- 
sulted in the latters’ enforced departure. 

Near Wilson, N. C., two colored men 
were arrested in different places for the 
murder of a deputy sheriff. Both were 
nearly lynched and it is not yet decided 
which is the man wanted, or whether 
either of them is the murderer. 








10 THE CRISIS 


The effort to prevent the return to 
Franklin county, Ga., of William Shackel- 
ford, colored, has extended to almost every 
colored society in Cincinnati, and petitions 
are being sent to Governor Harmon. 
Among the latest to take that action are the 
Republican Union and the Union League, 
each organization sending strong letters to 
the Governor. It is stated in the letters 
that in many instances the return of a 
colored man to certain sections of the 
South under the circumstances that mark 
the Shackelford case has been equivalent 
to a death warrant. The man and his 
thirteen-year-old son fled from Georgia, 
after Shackelford had killed a man while 
peeens his son, who, it is ‘said, in a 

yish prank, frightened two white girls. 
Shackelford still is in the city hospital, suf- 
fering from a wound received in escap- 
ing. Police Court Judge Bode advised a 
friend to swear to a warrant charging 
Shackelford with being a suspicious _per- 
son, so as to bring him within the juris- 
diction of the local courts. 


Sheriff Hicks, of Macon, Ga., started out 
one day to put more than one hundred 
Negroes in the county jail for vagrancy. 
He even took a hand in the campaign him- 
self, making the arrest of several. 

The officers approach a Negro suspected 
of being a vagrant with an offer of work, 
having been authorized to make the propo- 
sition by several of the local manufacturing 
enterprises. If the Negro declines to go 
to work, and cannot give any satisfactory 
statement as to his present place of em- 
ployment, his arrest follows. After all the 
idling Negro meff have been rounded up, 
according to the local press, the attention 
of the officers will be directed to the 
women. 


Aaron Shepperd, a Negro of Helena, 
Ark., charged with slapping a white boy, 
was arrested and given a heavy fine. The 
man denied his guilt. 

At Baxterville, Miss., the white citizens 
have driven out the Negroes as a result 
of race disturbances. 


A dispatch from Stanford, Ky., states 
that a race war is threatened as the result 
of an alleged attack upon three white tobacco 
growers. A white mob organized, but in 
some manner the colored population got 
word that the whites intended to lynch 
the two Negroes in jail charged with as- 
sault, The black men immediately organ- 
ized and took up a stand on a tract of 
ground in the rear of the courthouse. 
Bonfires were built and the Negroes, after 
tieing white handkerchiefs on their arms, 
announced openly their intention of fight- 
ing any mob that put in an appearance. The 
white mob had sent scouts into town to 
see the lay of the land. They found not 
only the Negro mob ready, but the county 


officials on guard. The scouts retired and 
the mob did not appear. The situation is 
still considered dangerous, 


At Eufala, Ala. a colored boy, 
Peterson, 18 years old, was lynched on 
February 12. He was taken from the 
automobile that was carrying him to jail, 
hanged and shot. A woman said that as 
she was going from a neighbor’s house to 
her home a Negro seized her. Her screams 
brought several of her neighbors to the 
scene and the man fled. 

Peterson was found at his father’s house 
and the woman said he was the man. 


William E. Hill, a colored man who has 
spent forty years in the State prison at 
Charleston, Mass., has just received a par- 
don, The impressions which the changed 
condition of things, countless new build- 
ings, elevated structures, trolley cars, 
bridges, made upon his mind after forty 
years’ seclusion almost dazed him. 

Hill was serving a life term for murder. 
He is a veteran of the Civil War and had 
been a model prisoner. The Boston 
Guardian has been active in obtaining his 
release. 


Iver 


FOREIGN. 

The $1,000,000 needed for funding the 
Liberian national debt has been raised. The 
claims of France and England have been 
settled and the European powers have 
raised no objection to the protectorate of 
the United States. It is said that in the 
Liberian ports the Ar -rican chief officer 
is to have three assistants, English, French, 
and German. 


Lord Gladstone, Governor-General of 
South Africa, has commuted the sentence 
of death recently passed in Rhodesia against 
a native accused of assault on a white 
woman. He declared the evidence insuffi- 
cient. The Rhodesians are reported as very 
angry and talking of lynching. 


South Africa is witnessing a recrudes- 
cence of the color question. A Dutch mem- 
ber of the Union Parliament has proposed 
an amendment to the marriage bill forbid- 
ding the marriage of whites and colored 
persons. 

The heads of the Anglican and Roman 
Catholic Churches declare that if the 
amendment is carried they will neverthe- 
less solemnize such marriages. Other 
churches, except the Dutch, will probably 
act in a similar way. 


The Dutch Church is promoting a pri- 
vate bill to amaigamate the different sec- 
tions of the church. A feature of the 
measure is a clause enacting that colored 
members of the church in Cape Colony 
lose their membership if they migrate north 
of the Cape: while colored people in the 
northern colonies will be ineligible for 
membership. 





and 
n is 


Iver 
| on 
the 
jail, 
t as 
> to 
“ams 
the 


ouse 


) has 
n at 
par- 
nged 
uild- 
cars, 
forty 


rder. 
| had 
ston 
x his 


y the 
The 
been 
have 
te of 
n the 
ficer 
ench, 


1 of 
itence 
Zainst 
white 
isuffi- 
; very 


udes- 
mem- 
posed 
orbid- 
plored 


oman 
f =the 
erthe- 
Other 
bably 


a pri- 
t sec- 
f the 
olored 
‘olony 
north 
in the 
e for 











OPINION 


POLITICAL, 

In our last issue we referred to the 
debates in the Senate as to the effect the 
popular election of senators would have on 
the Negro situation in the South. This 
month we give on page five an account of 
the speech of Senator Root. There is a 
feeling among the newspaper editors that 
the race question was raised merely to 
cloud the election issue, but the speeches 
come in for some extended comment. The 
Boston Transcript says: 


“In his speech, and more specifically in 
reply to Senator Bacon’s question, Mr. 
Root declared that by the provisions of this 
amendment the Federal Government would 
have power to annul the suffrage amend- 
ments of the constitutions of the Southern 
States and thus do away with all the grand- 
father clauses and other subterfuges with 
which the South has disfranchised the 
Negro. It is difficult to find an authority 
in the United States outside the Supreme 
Court itself whose word would be more 
convincing than Senator Root’s on any legal 
point. His explanation of this Sutherland 
amendment, which is sure to pass, will un- 
doubtedly array the Southern senators 
against the amendment as a whole, and 
will defeat the proposition so far as this 
Congress is concerned.” 


The Rochester (N. Y.) Times thinks it 
was easy to understand the feeling that the 
North should not interfere in the South’s 
attitude toward the Negro but feels that 
the situation is bad. “While the Northern 
States have not made any vigorous protests 
against these violations of the Constitution, 
it is easy to see that there are grave objec- 
tions against adding to the electoral privi- 
leges of States where a large proportion 
of the persons entitled by the Constitution 
to vote are prevented by State laws, If 
the Southern States want their senators 
elected by the people of the States they 
should first see to it that the right to 
vote is exercised by all the people, not alone 
by those who happen to be of one color.” 

The New York Press, which earnestly 
advocates the popular election of senators, 
says that the race issue has been dragged 
in by the reactionaries and has no place 
in the discussion. “When the people shall 
have won their irresistible fight for the 
direct election of senators the Roots will 
forget all about the disfranchised Negro. 
If occasion should demand it, and it would 
serve the cause of special privilege so to 
do, the present champions of the trampled 
colored voter would no doubt some day 
strike hands with Southern senators to keep 
him ground to the dust, and would defend, 


in impassioned pleas for white sovereignty 
at the South, the electoral injustice they 
now sanctimoniously condemn.” 


The Rome (N. Y.) Sentinel says the 
senator’s contention is not well founded. 
It declares that no matter how the election 
of senators may be changed there will still 
remain with Congress “that power which 
has never yet been exercised but which lies 
ready under the Constitution, to penalize 
States which limit their franchise by grand- 
father or educational clauses, North or 
South, through the cutting down of the 
States’ representation in the House of Rep- 
resentatives. Again, it is to be said that 
the Senate has never yet attempted to set 
aside the election of a Southern senator 
on the ground that the Negroes were kept 
from voting for the members of the legis- 
lature returning the senator in question. 

The St. Paul (Minn.)- Pioneer , Press 
takes the matter more seriously, and thinks 
the question is one that demands the most 
thorough and intelligent consideration be- 
fore final action is taken. “However em- 
phatic the sentiment and demand in favor 
of election of United States senators by a 
direct vote of the people, we believe the 
proposition would be rejected if its adop- 
tion would carry with it the indorsement 
of the disfranchising laws which many of 
the Southern States have enacted against 
the Negro citizens.” 

That the colored man still has some 
power in politics is shown by, various dis- 
patches from Washington. “It is a fact,’ 
says the New York Tribune’s correspondent, 
“that some, at least, of the men who by a 
deal with the Democrats to confirm Negro 
disfranchisement overthrew the old guard 
yesterday, are wondering to-day if they 
have done wisely, | venator Smith, of Mich- 
igan, who voted with the insurgents and the 
Democrats, has a large Negro constituency. 
So has Senator Cummins, of Iowa. So 
has, or had, Senator Beveridge, of Indiana. 
Congress may not deem it wise to protect 
the rights of the Negro in the Southern 
States, but that is a wholly different matter 
from alienating all right to do so in so far 
as the election of senators is concerned. 
Of course, there is little probability that 
this amendment can command the necessary 
two-thirds vote in the senate. even if the 
insurgents maintain their unholy alliance 
with the Democrats, but the very fact that 
insurgent Republicans have entered into such 
an alliance is filled with possibilities of ill 
to their future political welfare, and some of 
them are, metaphorically speaking, suffering 
from severe ‘morning-after headaches.’” 

And the correspondent of the Ithaca 





12 THE CRISIS 


(N. Y.) Journal writes from Washington: 
“When the proposition for the election of 
senators by direct vote came before the 
senate there was every indication that it 
would command the necessary two-thirds 
vote and might be speedily passed. Then 
the Negro issue was raised. As a result 
there was a long period of waiting. From 
different sections of the country came re- 
ports of apprehension on the part of Negro 
leaders. It was evident that the Negro 
is a power in many States even if he is 
no longer much of a factor in the South.” 


THE SOCIALISTS. 

The race question has been receiving a 
good deal of attention from Socialists in 
New York. The Socialist organ, the Call, 
printed an editorial on a lecture delivered 
before a “local” by Dr. W. E. B. DuBois, 
and this editorial brought a protest, of a 
familiar sort, from one who signed himself 
“Southern Socialist.” In a lengthy reply 
the Call said: 

“The letter by a ‘Southern Socialist’ 
brings forward the old stock argument 
against granting the Negro the economic, 
political, educational and other social rights 
that are enjoyed by the white man. 

“Granting the Negro equal rights does 
not mean that you are obliged to be on 
terms of personal intimacy with him, that 
you must invite him to your home, and 
that you must give him your daughter in 
marriage. But it does mean that he is to 
have the same economic opportunities as 
the white man, that his vote is to be of 
equal effect with the white man’s, that the 
educational opportunities offered by school, 
college and univessity are to be open to 
him on the same conditions as to the white 
man, and that in all other respects he is 
to be treated as the peer, and not as the 
inferior, of the white man. If you desire 
to be on terms of friendly intimacy with 
a Negro, that is your affair and the Negro’s 
affair. Society is not concerned with it in 
the least. 

“Socialism calls upon all workers, irre- 
spective of nationality, creed or color, to 
join hands against the capitalist oppressors. 
The Negro worker is, quite naturally, 
somewhat suspicious. He has been imposed 
upon again and again. Nevertheless, he is 
bound to discover, sooner or later, that the 
Socialist movement is radically different 
from every other movement of the past or 
present. 

“The ideal of this movement—the aboli- 
tion of all classes and all exploitation— 
cements everywhere the unity of all who are 
engaged in it. It is also bound to pro- 
foundly affect the relation of the white 
worker to his Negro comrade. It is bound 
to open the doors of the trade unions to 
the Negro workers, who are to be placed 
on a footing of perfect equality. To the 
unions this is, indeed, a necessity of their 
very existence, for to exclude Negroes 
from equal participation in the struggles of 
labor for immediate improvement is equiva- 


lent to the artificial breeding of strike- 
breakers. 

“But a successful Socialist movement will 
do for the Negro infinitely more than this. 
At the very best, Negro equality under cap- 
italism can be only equality with his fellow 
workers in wage slavery. But a Socialist 
state of society is the only society in 
which the Negro will be given, for the first 
time in recorded history, the opportunity 
to develop all that is best in him, physically 
and mentally. 

“And in the meanwhile, while the struggle 
for this great ideal is going on, it is the 
duty of the Socialist movement everywhere 
to champion the rights of the Negro, This 
course, which is the only one we can 
take, will undoubtedly retard our growth 
in the States of the South. But steadfast 
adherence to principle has been demon- 
strated again and again to be the only 
course that leads to Socialist success. And 
in the long run our success in the South is 
as certain, as preordained, as our success 
in the rest of the country and in the world.” 

A number of readers enthusiastically en- 
dorsed by letter the Call’s attitude. One 
man wrote that the race question was the 
most important issue before the Socialists 
to-day and warned them against “expedient 
hypocrisy.” The writer concludes: “Let 
us frankly seek the economic freedom of 
our own class, realizing that the vast major- 
ity of the Negroes are of us and must 
needs be with us or we are lost. Educa- 
tion means agitation. Let us start the 
propaganda by doing all in our power to 
bring the Negro into our organization and 
thus educate our white members to work 
with him and thus overcome the habit of 
race prejudice.” 


SEGREGATION AGAIN. 

The Baltimore segregation ordinance con- 
tinues to bring out comment. When it was 
pronounced void, on account of technical 
defects, the New York Evening Post said: 
“It is interesting to note that while the 
judges rendered their decision on the 
ground of improper framing of the ordi- 
nance, they took occasion, in handing down 
the decision, to touch upon the real issue 
involved, as follows: 

“Whether it is possible to pass a valid 
ordinance providing for the segregation of 
the white and colored races in their places 
of residence, is a question of great impor- 
tance, but is one which in our judgment 
ought to be decided when an ordinance not 
otherwise void is before this court. 

“Tt happens that of the two judges sitting 
in the case one is a Democrat and the other 
a Republican, but there is apparently no 
difference of opinion between them as to 
the grave doubt that attaches to the ques- 
tion whether it would be possible consti- 
tutionally to effect the object arrived at 
by any device whatsoever.” 

Harper’s Weekly observes: “Baltimore 
may be the first large community to attempt 
to legalize a discrimination against Negroes 





=e a - oS 


1_wenm we wD TD 


nn es 





OPINION 13 


in the matter of where they shall be per- 
mitted to live and to hold property, but a 
similar discrimination, enforced by means 
as effective as any written law, is common 
to nearly all Southern cities and towns, 
Partial or complete segregation, however 
brought about, is almost equally common 
in Northern towns and cities which have 
considerable Negro populations. 

“The general reflection which the facts 
suggest is that economic discrimination 
against Negroes is national and not merely 
sectional. It is not a reflection which 
should give any oft us pleasure. Whatever 
may be our wisest course with the race in 
matters political and social, hardly any of 
us would deny that it is entitled to a fair 
chance in matters economic and industrial. 
The right to vote is one thing. The right 
to work, and to enjoy the fruit of one’s 
labors, is quite another thing.” 

Inspired by Baltimore, one Mr. Vonder- 
lehr, of Richmond, seeks to segregate the 
colored population of his town in what the 
Richmond Leader calls an “eminently wise 
and judicious measure,” which will appeal 
to the “good citizenship” of the colored 
man, 

“Segregation,” remarks the Leader, “has 
proved to be a mitigation, if not a solution 
of the race problem.” The “Jim Crow” 
car law, the Leader thinks, has done much 
for the peace and comfort of.the traveling 
public—meaning, presumably, the white 
traveling public—and is an “unmixed bless- 
ing.” “Some ill-advised Negroes have in- 
deed railed against it. This, however, has 
only accentuated its need and its useful- 
ness,” 

The colored folk of New Orleans have 
been complaining that if they are to be 
segregated on cars and in schools they 
should not be forced to have white teachers, 
white bartenders and so on. The Times- 
Democrat, which thinks that objection to 
segregation shows an “abject lack of race- 
pride,” holds that the Negroes are justified 
in some of their contentions. 

“The speakers complained, not without 
reason, that these practices did not accord 
with the demand of the whites for segre- 
gation; were unfair and grossly inconsis- 
tent. A protest was lodged also against 
the methods by which the ‘Jim Crow’ 
screens in the local street cars were manip- 
ulated. 

“We are not at all sure that the objec- 
tion leveled against the street car usage 
is well taken, but there is no doubt of 
the justice of their complaint against the 
inconsistency of employing white teachers 
in Negro schools and white bartenders in 
black saloons. The Negroes have done well 
to protest, and we think the practices 
against which they complain can and 
should be stopped.” 


THE “JIM CROW” CAR. 


Judge Sanford, of the United States 
District Court in Tennessee, has decided 


that the Interstate Commerce Commission 
may compel interstate carriers to furnish 
the same accommodations for the same 
money to blacks as to the whites. The 
railroads admitted that there was discrim- 
ination in accommodations by attacking 
the right of the Commission to issue any 
such order. The Commissioners say that 
if the railroads do not obey their order 
they will be compelled to do away with 
the Jim Crow car altogether. 

“Indubitably,” says the New York Na- 
tion, “the railways will carry the case to 
the Supreme Court; if there the decision 
should be against them, they will doubt- 
less be compelled by public sentiment, in 
the present temper of the South, to give 
the accommodations ordered and thus pre- 
serve the Jim Crow car. We heartily 
wish it might be abolished for all time, 
as a manifestation of prejudice and racial 
hatred utterly out of place in a democ- 
racy. The true remedy for what are obvi- 
ously trying conditions is the establishment 
of the European system of several classes 
of accommodation at varying rates, just 
as there are now Pullmans and day 
coaches. No one who has not had to travel 
in the ordinary Jim Crow car can, we are 
sure, have any conception of what decent 
colored people have to suffer every day at 
the hands of Southern railways.” 

The Boston Post declares that the rail- 
roads have brought the trouble on them- 
selves by their neglect of their colored 
passengers. “The system itself has never 
been found unconstitutional or illegal; 
separation is permitted, but—and here is 
the rub of the whole matter—railroads 
must give as good accommodations to 
Negroes as to whites for the same money. 
That they do not do it is notorious. The 
fight is going to the United States Supreme 
Court, apparently. It seems hardly possi- 
ble that that tribunal will hesitate to de- 
cide that a black man’s money is as good 
as a white man’s and entitled to an exactly 
equivalent return.” 


The United Colored Democracy of New 
York, which worked hard to elect Governor 
Dix, is advocating a project to establish 
a colored regiment in the National Guard 
of New York State. There was an objec- 
tion from Adjutant-General Verbeck, who 
said that colored men were not debarred 
from entering the existing regiments and 
that the presence of colored officers would 
create “unpleasant situations” at social 
functions. The United Colored Democracy 
replied : 

“We have noticed with considerable as- 
tonishment the argument of the adjutant- 
general against establishing a Negro regi- 
ment of the National Guard. 

“That argument, reduced to its lowest 
terms, is this: First, that Negroes can 
join the present regiments of the Guard. 
Second, that Negro officers would be 
brought into social relations with white 
officers. 





14 THE CRISIS 


“As to the first argument, we wish to 
say that it is false, and everyone knows 
it is. Despite the fact that New York’s 
colored population has both former private 
soldiers and former army officers and many 
other young men anxious to enter the 
National Guard they are absolutely barred 
by the color line. We challenge General 
Verbeck to show us a single regiment will- 
ing to receive a Negro recruit. We promise 
to furnish a black soldier, and a good one, 
for every such opening. 

“It is because we are barred from enter- 
ing the Guard as individuals that we de- 
mand a regiment of our own. If the color 
line is forced on us we accept it and 
demand our own organization, 

“The colored people of the State of New 
York have no wish to force their company 
on any one, but as citizens of the State 
of New York they have a right to appear 
at public functions according to their posi- 
tion. 

“It is high time that such class hatred 
and distinctions should be frowned upon 
by public opinion. The National Guard 
of New York is not a social organization— 
it is a vital necessity to the State, and 
the common people of the State have a 
right to enter and officer it, even though 
they be Negroes.” 

Statistics were added from the War De- 
partment showing the record of the colored 
soldiers to be superior to that of the white 
in physique, health, efficiency and also in 
the matter of desertions. 


THE LAND OF “SOCIAL EQUALITY.” 

The political, ggonomic, religious, moral, 
financial and sfindry other evils which, 
according to certain vociferous Americans, 
would undoubtedly follow “social equal- 
ity” in this country ought to be finding 
their happy hunting ground in South 
America, if anywhere, but the Honorable 
John Barrett, director-general of the Pan- 
American Union, has not been able to 
find them. Mr. Barrett was in the diplo- 
matic service for many years and has been 
minister to several South American coun- 
tries. In the course of a long interview 
syndicated by the Pubiishers’ Press, he 
said: 

“Another mistaken impression about 
Latin America, too often current ‘among 
Americans who know only their own coun- 
try and travel only in Europe, is that the 
greater portion of the southern continent 
is somewhat backward in civilization. This 
is a most unfortunate error. The truth 
is that in several of the principal countries 
there, and in many sections of the others, 
there are along certain lines greater evi- 
dences of civilization and progress than 
there are along the same lines in the 
United States. 

“Municipal government has, in many re- 
spects, reached a higher state of perfec- 
tion in such cities as Buenos Ayres, Rio de 
Janeiro, Santiago de Chile and Lima, 


not to speak of Mexico City and Havana, 
than it has in most North American cities. 
Sometimes we hear references to ‘graft’ 
in Latin America, but the greatest graft 
ever known in the big cities down there 
is insignificant compared with that which 
has from time to time been uncovered in 
our municipalities. 

“That it should be true is startling, but 
it is a fact that it costs less to administer 
Buenos Ayres than it does to administer 
St. Louis, Boston, Baltimore or San Fran- 
cisco, the largest of which has about one- 
half of Buenos Ayres’ ‘population. 

“Yes, the Latin American has many vir- 
tues. Take his home life. Rich or poor, 
he can be accused of anything but race 
suicide. The best families in Brazil, Ar- 
gentina, Chile, and Mexico average two 
or three times the number of children 
characterizing the best families in the 
United States. This may be due to the 
prevailing religion and its teachings in 
this matter, or it may be due to race 
psychology; but the fact remains.” 


Mr. W. H. Lewis, of Boston, said in 
a recent speech: “The industrial outlook 
in Boston to-day for the Negro is darker 
than since the Civil War. The blood of 
the signers of the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence and even that of the abolitionists 
seems to have run out. 

“A recent graduate of Harvard, a young 
colored man, tried to enter the banking 
business in Boston, but was refused, and 
another Negro, a graduate of the scien- 
tific department of Harvard and the Mas- 
sachusetts Institute of Technology, went 
from place to place, but when it was 
found that he was a black man there was 
no place for him. This man was refused 
for no reason but antipathy against his 
color. You should lend a hand to the 
Negro right here at your own door.” 


The Rev. Dr. Joseph Silverman, rabbi 
of the important Temple Emanu-E]l in 
New York, said in his sermon of February 
11, which dealt with “Race Prejudice”: 

“America never needed another Lincoln 
as it does to-day. Though the war is 
ended and the slaves freed and raised to 
citizenship, there afe many white Ameri- 
cans carrying on a war as bitter and unjust 
as that carried on against the Negroes 
fifty years ago. If Lincoln lived to-day, 
he would insist that this issue of the war 
be carried out in the letter and in the 
spirit.” 


A press dispatch from Washington says 
that in conversation with Mr. Chas. A. 
Cottrell, just appointed the first colored 
collector of the port at Honolulu, an official 
observed that he would not have any 
“social preferment” in his new post. 

“T’m not going for social preferment,” 
said Cottrell. “I’m going for the $4,000 
a year.” 


THE WN. A. A. C, P. 





ice 


nt 
as 
ed 
11S 
he 


rbi 


ys 


al 
ny 


Lo 





The Third Annual Conference of the 
Association will take place in Park Street 
Church, Boston, Thursday and Friday, 
March 30 and 31, 1911. There will be a 
business session, three public meetings and 
a reception to members and visitors. The 
public meetings will take up the questions 
of Segregation, Infringement of Property 
Rights and Education. The prospects for 
a large and interesting meeting are un- 
usually good. 


The first Philadelphia mass meeting was 
held at the Friends’ Meeting House, Race 
Street, on Washington’s Birthday. Messrs. 
Villard, Milholland and DuBois, Dr, Ran- 
som and others spoke. The subject was 
education. — 

On hearing that a Congressional Com- 
mittee had been appointed to investigate 
the “third degree,” the lawyers retained 
by this association sent the following let- 
ter: 

We understand from our clients, the 
National Society for the Advancement of 
Colored People and Mr. Oswald G. Villard 
of this city, that you are chairman of a 
committee recently appointed by the United 
States Senate “to investigate the extent 
among police forces of the species of tor- 
ture of arrested persons known as the 
third degree,” and, at their request, we 
give you the following information regard- 
ing a case which. we have just handled 
for them in New Jersey. 

The case is that of a Negro, Thomas 
Williams, who was arrested and accused 
of the murder of a white girl eleven years 
of age under the most revolting circum- 
stances at Asbury Park, New Jersey, on 
or about November 13, 1910. It appeared 
from the newspapers after this date that 
there was a great danger of Williams 
being lynched, and, in behalf of the Na- 
tional Association, we made an investiga- 
tion of the facts of the case and of the 
evidence which the Public Prosecutor had 
in his possession against Williams, either 
as the principal or as a material witness. 

In our opinion there was no evidence 
sufficient to hold him on either of these 
grounds, Acting for the Association we 
thereupon procured a writ of habeas 
corpus and upon the return of the writ 
an order was entered discharging Williams 
from custody, the Public Prosecutor hav- 
ing appeared and having failed to produce 
any evidence on which to hold him for any 
connection whatsoever with the crime. 

Williams is still, however, confined in 
the county jail at. Freehold, New Jersey, 
on a charge of violating the election laws 
of New Jersey, he having been rearrested 





on this charge immediately on the conclu- 
sion of the habeas corpus proceedings. 

We have reason to believe that during 
the greater part of the time that Williams 
has been confined in the county jail he 
has been subjected to that species of cross- 
examination known as the “third de- 
gree,” the intention of the police and of 
the Public Prosecutor being apparently to 
fasten this crime upon him at all costs, 
Williams being the only man against whom 
they had the slightest clue whatsoever. 
Since the commission of the crime, other 
witnesses have been detained but have been 
released almost immediately, and no fur- 
ther evidence has turned up. The Coron- 
er’s inquest produced no testimony connect- 
ing Williams with the crime. 

Owing to the interest which we have 
taken in this case from a humanitarian 
standpoint and also at the request of the 
National Association for the Advancement 
of Colored People, we beg to lay these 
facts before your committee and to say 
that should your committee desire it we 
shall be pleased to furnish any further 
information which we have in regard to 
this matter which you feel might aid it 
in its investigations. 





The following meetings and lectures 
under the auspices of this association were 
held in February: 

Settlement workers, Philadelphia, at 
Eighth Ward Settlement, Philadelphia, Feb- 
ruary 13. 

Socialists and Workingmen at Lenox 
Casino. 

Woman’s Municipal League, 29th Street. 
Meeting to form a New York Local, N. 
Ay Aa ee 2. 

Office of Evening Post, Conference with 
Jane Addams, Jacob Schiff and others. 

Lectures at Boston (20th Century Club 
and Ford Hall) Southold, Long Island; 
Columbus, Steubenville, and Xenia, Ohio; 
Detroit, Mich. (three meetings), and at 
the House of Refuge, Philadelphia, and 
Stillman House, New York. 

The audiences at these meetings have 
aggregated 10,000 persons. 


Under the auspices of this Association, 
Superintendent W. H. Maxwell, of the 
New York Public Schools, is forming a 
committee to study the question of National 
Aid to Public School Education. A com- 
mittee representing this and other bodies 
waited on President Taft last week and 
urged official representation of the United 
States at the Races Congress. The Presi- 
dent expressed his interest and his desire 
to co-operate with the committee. 


EDITORIAL 





THE BLAIR BILL. 


HERE is living to-day in the 
city of Washington a white- 


haired man of towering phy- 
sique who was born in New Hamp- 
shire in 1834. He was admitted to 
the bar in 1859 and became a Lieu- 
tenant-Colonel in the Civil War. On 
December 6, 1875, he was elected a 
representative in the United States 
Congress, and from June, 1879, to 
March, 1891, was United States Sen- 
ator from New Hampshire; and his 
name is Blair. 

On July 29, 1876, Henry William 
Blair delivered a speech on “Free 
Schools” in the House of Represen- 
tatives which marked the beginning 
of his career. In 1881 as Chairman 
of the Committee on Education and 
Labor in the United States Senate, 
Mr. Blair introduced the celebrated 
Blair bill. 

The Blair bill was discussed for 
ten years, passed the Senate of the 
United States thyee times, command- 
ed at least twice a majority in the 
House of Representatives, although 
it was not permitted to come to a 
vote, and was finally defeated in the 
United States Senate in 1890 by a 
combination of New England and 
Middle West votes. 

The Blair bill as reported to the 
48th Congress provided: 

“That for ten years after the pass- 
age of this act there shall be an- 
nually appropriated from the money 
in the Treasury the following sums, 
to wit: The first year the sum 
of $15,000,000; the second year, the 
sum of $14,000,000; the third year 
the sum of $13,000,000, and there- 
after a sum diminished $1,000,000 
yearly from the sum last appropriated 
until ten annual appropriations shall 
have been made, when all appropria- 
tions under this act shall cease; 
which several sums shall be expended 
to secure the benefits of common- 


school education of all children of 
the school age mentioned hereafter 
living in the United States. 

“Sec. 2. That such money shall 
annually be divided among and paid 
out in the several States and Terri- 
tories in that proportion which the 
whole number of persons in each, 
who, being of the age of ten years 
and over, cannot read and write 
bears to the whole number of such 
persons in the United States; and 
until otherwise provided such com- 
putation shall be made according to 
the official returns of the census of 
1880. 

“Sec. 5. That the instruction in 
the common schools wherein these 
moneys shall be expended shall in- 
clude the art of reading, writing and 
speaking the English language, arith- 
metic, geography, history of the 
United States and such other branches 
of useful knowledge as may be taught 
under local laws, and shall include, 
whenever practicable, instruction in 
the arts of industry, and the instruc- 
tion of females in such branches of 
technical or industrial education as 
are suited to their sex, which in- 
struction shall be free to all, without 
distinction of race, color, nativity or 
condition of life: Provided, that 
nothing herein shall deprive children 
of different races, living in the same 
community, but attending separate 
schools, from receiving the benefits 
of this act the same as though the 
attendance therein were without dis- 
tinction of race.” 

The sentiment in favor of this bill 
was tremendous. Garfield mentioned 
it in his inaugural address, the Pea- 
body trustees favored it, Dr. J. L. 
M. Curry spoke for it, the American 
Missionary Association, the Baptist, 
Methodist, and Presbyterian Mission- 
ary and Educational Societies sent 
in memorials signed by men like 
Michael Strieby and Samuel C. Arm- 








EDITORIAL 17 


strong of Hampton; State school 
superintendents from Georgia, Mary- 
land, and South Carolina sent in let- 
ters; W. T. Harris, of the Bureau 
of Education, was “heartily in favor” 
and Southern Congressmen like Wade 
Hampton, Vance of North Carolina, 
Brown and Colquit of Georgia, Lamar 
and George of Mississippi, Call of 
Florida, Pugh of Alabama, Bayard 
of Delaware and Beck of Kentucky, 
voted for the bill. 

There was, however, opposition 
from influential quarters, an opposi- 
tion not to education but to Federal 
aid. It was feared that local re- 
sponsibility would be weakened and 
the federal power unduly extended. 
So the bill died. 

What has been the result? In 
1870 there were seven and a half 
million illiterates over ten years of 
age in the United States. Forty 
years later there are over six million 
illiterates. Moreover, these six mil- 
lion illiterates are those who admit 
that they are illiterate. How many 
more millions have deceived the cen- 
sus takers? Then, too, the ability to 
read and write does not spell intelli- 
gence. 

In other words, we have to-day in 
the United States a staggering prob- 
lem of sheer ignorance. Can we 
found democratic government on such 
a basis? REVIVE THE BLAIR 
BILL. 

THE METHODIST CHURCH, 

NORTH. 

N 1844 the general conference of 

I the Methodist Church sitting in 

New York City, by a vote of 
110 to 68, suspended from his func- 
tions Bishop Andrew who had come 





into possession of slaves through 
marriage. 


The result was the forming of the 
Methodist Church, South, in 1845. 
After emancipation this latter church 
set off its former slave members into 
a separate church. The Methodist 
Church of the North having in a 
previous century and later lost the 
colored members of the African and 
Zion Methodist Churches, began to 
welcome the freedmen to its doors 


and to help in their education. The 
result is that this church to-day has 
over 300,000 colored members. 

Questions concerning the treatment 
of these members have continually 
arisen. So long as they could be 
treated as objects of purely mis- 
sionary effort there was much en- 
thusiasm. More and more, however, 
these colored men demanded recogni- 
tion as men. In 1848 the general 
conference allowed itinerant colored 
ministers; in 1852 a colored confer- 
ence was erected; in 1856 the first 
colored missionary bishop went to 
Africa. In 1860 the colored confer- 
ences were raised to full power and 
eight years later Negro delegates sat 
in the general convention. From 
1872 until to-day the question of a 
black bishop has bothered the con- 
ference. and several candidates have 
been voted for. Colored men have 
been elected to general offices in 
seven cases, but always with authority 
over Negro affairs. 

Here at last the church stands. 
But a new question appears. Gradu- 
ally a better feeling has grown up 
between the Northern and Southern 
white sections of the church and 
Many dream of reuniting the two 
halves. But—and here’s the rub— 
the price of amalgamation is for the 
Northern branch to give up their 
principles on the Negro question. 
Southern white servants of Christ 
will hardly sit in general conference 
with black men and certainly Negro 
presiding elders and bishops would 
be unthinkable. 

Therefore (and is not this charac- 
teristically American?) the Methodist 
Church is here and there quietly and 
cautiously suggesting to its black 
members: “Would you not like to 
withdraw and be separate and have 
your own bishops?” 

“Come unto Me, all ye that labor 
and are heavy laden and I will give 
you rest!” 


ABRAHAM GRANT. 

NLY America could furnish 
the contrasts for a life like 
that of the late Abraham 

Grant, bishop of the African Metho- 








THE CRISIS MAI 





MARCH, 1911 


SIS 





“SOCIAL EQUALITY” 


Drawn by John Henry Adams 





ae 





20 THE CRISIS 


dist Church. He was born in Florida 
in 1848, sold as a slave into Georgia, 
and served as clerk, steward and in- 
spector of customs. Finally he be- 
came a preacher and was elected 
bishop at the early age of forty. 
In this, perhaps the highest office in 
the gift of colored Americans, Bishop 
Grant served for nearly a quarter of 
a century. 

On the whole he represented the 
better element of the Church. He 
was not a learned man, but he was 
clean and honest, and his magnificent 
physique and hearty manner, together 
with his undoubted business tact, 
wielded wide influence. It is signifi- 
cant of a new day that such a man 
was able to distribute fifty thousand 
dollars in his will to Negro education, 
and that a President of the United 
States was led publicly to record his 
death. 


THE WHITE PRIMARY. 


ANY well-intentioned Ameri- 
M cans argue this way: the 
present disfranchisement 
laws of the South are unfair, but in 
time, after the special exemptions un- 
der the grandfather clause have run 
out, justice will prevail and all men 
will vote under educational and prop- 
erty restrictions. 

The prospect for this outcome is 
not reassuring, because few people 
realize that even the colored voters 
of States like Virginia, North Caro- 
lina, South Carolina, Georgia, Ala- 
bama, Mississippi and Louisiana, who 
pass the present restrictions, are dis- 
franchised again by the white primary. 

It is this fact, which has been sel- 
dom discussed, that explains many 
contradictions. Senator Percy, of 
Mississippi, says, for instance, “There 
is no such thing as Negro suffrage 
in Mississippi and never will be as 
long as the white men of the State 
stand together.” The Atlanta Con- 
stitution said repeatedly in the first 
Hoke Smith campaign: 

“Negroes are already disfranchised 
in Georgia—why pass a constitutional 
amendment?” A judge on the bench 
of another State said in a decision: 





“Negroes do not vote in this State 
and ought not to, but they ought to 
get justice.” At the same time white 
Southerners declare that in every 
Southern State the Negro who com- 
plies with the law can vote. 

What is the answer to this para- 
dox? It is simple: the “White 
Primary.” 

Professor Macy, of Iowa, one of 
the foremost students of our politics, 
says: 

“The Democratic party in the 
Southern States has thus come to be 
an aggregation of white citizens or- 
ganized to maintain continued ascen- 
dency in State and local government. 
It lacks an essential characteristic 
of political parties in a free democ- 
racy, in that it does not rest its 
claim to such dominion upon the 
unrestrained choice of a free voting 
constituency. It is organized, not 
to debate, but to govern. As a 
political party, it makes and enforces 
party rules which have the force of 
law, and the power of the State is 
thus made to contribute to the 
strengthening of the party’s hold 
upon the State. . . . So it hap- 
pens that the primary election, which, 
in legal form merely nominates Dem- 
ocratic candidates for office, is, from 
the standpoint of the voter, the real 
election whereby local, State, and 
congressional officers are placed in 
positions of responsibility and power. 
It is, in fact, the one election of 
importance in the State, and the law 
leaves entirely to the decision of 
party officers the question who shall 
be considered qualified to cast a 
vote. . . . Party officials have 
entire charge of registration, the 
preparation of ballots, and the re- 
ceiving and counting of votes.” 

Two quotations will confirm this 
statement. The constitution of the 
Democratic party in South Carolina 
says of the primary election: 

“At this election only Democratic 
white voters who have been residents 
of the State twelve months and the 
county sixty days preceding the next 
general election, and such Negroes 
as voted the Democratic ticket in 
1876, and as have voted the Demo- 


aan 


oh 


= Se a 


mn er OD VW te 


s 


EDITORIAL 


cratic ticket continuously since, to 
be shown by the certificates of ten 
white Democratic voters, who will 
pledge themselves to support the nom- 
inee of such elections, may vote.” 

The Georgia Democrats declare: 

“All white electors, who have duly 
registered according to law, irrespect- 
ive of past political affiliations, and 
who intend in good faith to abide by 
the result of the party primary and 
support the nominations thereby, are 
hereby declared qualified, and are 
invited to participate in said primary 
election.” 

A friend of mine asked a promi- 
nent Florida white man in 1910: 

“Are there any Negro Democrats?” 

He answered with the utmost sur- 
prise: 

“Why, we wouldn't let a Negro 
vote the Democratic ticket.” 

In other words, by erecting a sin- 
gle party as a State within a State 
and giving it absolute private control 
of primary elections and the absolute 
right to say who shall vote in the 
election there arises the complete dis- 
franchisement of any group the ma- 
jority wills. For instance, Louisiana 
disfranchises all of her Negro voters 
except 1,743, and then by the “White 
Primary” system she disfranchises 
the rest. Such a system must, of 
course, be backed by a strong invin- 
cible public opinion to be successful. 
It involves two elections—the second 
merely a formal registering of the 
decision of the first. Since, how- 
ever, the first election is a party 
affair there can be no official returns. 
Moreover, the State cannot vote upon 
the great questions of the day that 
divide the nation into parties. Sec- 
ondly, the official election becomes 
simply an unimportant and perfunc- 
tory thing. 

How long before this curious com- 
bination of law and mob rule, backed 
by class and race hatred, will be used 
in other parts of this nation? 


POLITENESS. 

HERE are two situations where 
it is hard to be courteous: 
when courtesy involves pub- 

lic condemnation; and when courtesy 





21 
is demanded by the discourteous. 
The first is the problem of the white 
American, the second is the dilemma 
of the black American. Shall you 
rise in the street car and give that 
colored woman a seat, Mr. O’Brien, 
despite the grins and comments of 
your fellows? And you, Mr. John- 
son, shall you surrender your seat 
to the white woman whose manner 
toward you is a personal insult? 
Yes—yes, in both cases, and yes, 
with a full realization, a personal 
realization, of the cost. A raised hat, 
or a title of courtesy in the South 
by any white man to any colored 
woman usually means severe social 
condemnation. For a Negro to offer 
courtesies to white people usually 
means that the courtesy will be 
snatched as a right, or angrily re- 
fused; even if it is graciously ac- 
cepted there remains in the Negro’s 
breast the knowledge that he is 
giving what he, his wife or his child 
would never receive under reversed 
circumstances, and he half despises 
himself for being a gentleman. 





Such feelings explain much appar- 
ent discourtesy. White men, partic- 
ularly Southern white men, are often 
more harsh, sharp and insulting to 
colored people than they would dream 
of being were it not for the battle 
between instinctive courtesy and fear 
of public opinion which is raging in 
their own hearts. They resent pas- 
sionately the false position to which 
they are thus forced and the victim 
suffers. 

So, too, black men are often rudely 
and impudently impolite, truculent 
even toward friends and well-wishers 
because they are blindly and instinct- 
ively throwing up defenses against 
possible insult or taking present re- 
venge for past discourtesy. 

All this is wrong. No black man 
can afford to be less than studiously 
polite even in the face of possible 
insult. And the white man, North 
or South, whose courtesy does not 
extend to the weak, the helpless and 
the black, is not a gentleman, no 
matter whose grandson he may be. 





22 THE CRISIS 
SDDS LADDER FOE 
Ballade des Belles Milatraisses 





(The Octoroon Ball) New Orleans, 1840-1850 
By ROSALIE JONAS 
{Nore.—These celebrated “Octoroon Balls’ took place in a handsome building in 
the Creole quarter of New Orleans. In later days this same building has been turned 
into a Catholic convent. ‘“Milatraisses’” was the generic term for all that class—the 
octoroon, or quadroon woman. “‘Cocodrie” (meaning in Spanish Cocodrilla, the croc- 


odile) was the nickname for the unmixed black man, who lighted “les belles mila- 
traisses” through the dark Spanish streets by the ray of his hand lantern, but could 


go no further than the door of the hall, on pain of death. ‘‘Trouloulou”’ (the Turtle) 
was the nicknaine applied to the male octoroon, the one man of “color” admitted, 
who could find admittance to these orgies only in the capacity (in those days distinctly 


menial) of musician-‘‘fiddler.’’] 


‘Tis the Octoroon ball! And the halls are alight! 
The music is playing an old-time “Galop” 

The women are “fair,” and the cavaliers white, 

(Play on! fiddler-man, keep your eyes on your bow!) 
Cocodrie! Cocodrie! what strange shadows you throw 
Along the dark streets, by your hand-lantern’s ray! 
Light “les belles milatraisses” to the portal, that they 
May pass; but is doubly barred, black slave! to you: 
And the lilt of the old Creole song goes this way: 
“Trouloulou! Trouloulou! c’est pas zaffaire a tou!” 


The music grows madder! the ball’s at its height! 

For beauty and kisses, it’s Hey! and it’s Ho! 

These women are fair—for an hour a night— 

(Play on! fiddler-man, keep your eyes on your bow!) 
And for all dull to-morrows, to-night who'd forego! 
The music grows madder! “Play! Trouloulou! play!” 
Your women are frail, and your masters are gay! 
Cocodrie in the dark marks them flee and pursue! 
And the lilt of the old Creole song goes this way: 
“Trouloulou! Trouloulou! c’est pas zaffaire a tou!” 


They are ready and willing to love or to fight! 

Hot blood is aflame! and the red wine aflow! 

These women are theirs! who dare question their right! 
(Play on! fiddler-man, keep your eyes on your bow!) 
Who is it that prowls in the dark to and fro, 

To and fro—there! outside!—The door bursts! and at bay! 
Cocodrie! in the entrance! not easy to slay! 

(Hands off! you mad fiddler! or die with him, too!) 

And the lilt of the old Creole song goes this way: 
“Trouloulou! Trouloulou! c’est pas zaffaire a tou!” 


Envoy—The convent. 
New Orleans 1840-1850. 


They are gone, those light gallants of times long ago! 
(Fiddler-man of the past! is this dirge from your bow?) 
Are these black-hooded ghosts of the dancers we knew 
On their knees at the last? “C’est pas zaffaire a tou!” 


SISSIES SISA NSAIDS 





AFRICAN CIVILIZATION 


By M. D. MACLEAN 





A recent press dispatch tells a curious 
tale of a German explorer who has found, 
in a remote region of Africa, a bronze 
head of fine workmanship. The explorer, 
according to the cable, has been led to 
believe that he has discovered the site of 
the legendary country of Atlantis, repre- 
sented in ancient Greek literature as an 
island of high civilization lying far to the 
west. 

It is to be doubted whether the explorer 
made any such deduction from his find. 
The Atlantis portion of the story may be 
the embellishment of an imaginative cor- 
respondent, for that long disappeared coun- 
try has been sought and found in so many 
places that scientists are wary of talking 
about it. What would seem a more rea- 
sonable explanation of the discovery is 
that another evidence of an ancient African 
civilization has been brought to light? 

Whenever traces of a high civilization 
have been found in Africa the first ques- 
tion asked used to be: “Where was it 
brought from?” Nobody was prepared to 


WV/S 


iiiieeemanel 


WV. 


entertain the idea that perhaps it was 
not borrowed from anybody but originated 
on the spot, among the native races. As 
time goes on, however, and more and more 
evidence of a very ancient development 
appears in Africa, scientists have come to 
the conclusion that Africa played a very 
important part in the first stages of the 
world’s history, The testimony of the 
monuments has been too much for the 
other theory. 


For instance, some years ago there was 
a good deal of a sensation over the dis- 
covery of so-called Phoenician remains in 
Upper Rhodesia. They were probably, said 
the dispatches, the remains of dwellings 
that surrounded King Solomon’s mines. 
Investigation has shown conclusively that 
they were nothing of the sort, but merely 
remnants of a native civilization. Mr. 
David Randall-MaclIver, of Oxford Uni- 
versity, went to Rhodesia full of enthu- 
siasm for the Phoenician theory, but after 
a careful investigation his published work 
left no doubt on the subject. There was 





Two Negro Princesses of Meroe (after Lepsius). 











24 THE CRISIS 


nothing about the ruins in the remotest 
fashion Phoenician or Oriental, or anything 
but African. 

Even more startling results have fol- 
lowed the last ten years of excavations in 
the upper Soudan. They are not only 
giving a vast amount of information as to 
the early history of the Negro but are 
strengthening the claim that the black man, 
not the white, was the first to discover the 
art of working metals and gave this knowl- 
edge, which was the first great step forward 
in civilization, to Europe and nearer Asia 
Dr. Schweinfurth, the famous German eth 
nologist, and Dr. von Luschan, of the 
University of Berlin, have about converted 
European scientists to this way of think- 
ing, while in this country the theory is 
supported by our greatest anthropologist, 
Professor Boas, of Columbia. 

It is not an easy task to put together 
from the many unrelated accounts of ex- 
cavations in Africa all that has been dis- 
covered as to the black man’s past, but it 
is safe to say that every discovery has 
tended to confirm the accounts of African 
civilization which have come down to us 
as legends from antiquity. 

There existed, of course, until quite 
recent times a high civilization among the 
blacks of the upper Nile. From Arab books 
many of the details of this country’s cus- 
toms and government have been gathered 
and translated into French. Lady Lugard’s 
book, “A Tropical Dependency,” gives per- 
haps the best popular accounts of these 
records. But in addition to these modern 
records the country is full of monuments 
of a great antiquity, older than the most 
ancient records of the Egyptians, going 
back centuries before Pharaoh’s daughter 
found Moses in the bullrushes. 

How far Egypt took its civilization from 
the black empire and how far the two cul- 
tures originated simultaneously, from a 
common source, will not be decided until 
all the ruins have been unearthed and 
their records read, but it looks as if old 
theories were turning upside down, as if 
the black nations of certain regions of 
Africa were not races in their infancy, 
but the descendants of powerful civiliza- 
tions broken by the slave trade and by 
misfortune in successive wars. 

The Egyptians always said that their 
forefathers learned their arts and largely 
received their laws from the black people 
further south. And, of course, throughout 
the pages of Homer the Ethiopians are 
spoken_of with great respect, like the an 
cient Cretans, as the friends of the gods. 
The “blameless Ethiopians” is a common 
phrase. 

Herodotus, many centuries before the 
Christian Era, told tales of Africa which 
passed as the purest fiction until a few 
years ago. A famous instance is his asser- 
tion that a race of pygmies existed in the 
interior. For centuries historians shook 
their heads over this, as an example of 
imagination running away with fact, when 


suddenly it was discovered that Herodotus 
was perfectly right. Similarly his tales 
of the ancient empire south of Egypt are 
being verified from the monuments built 
by the very people of whom the historian 
wrote to celebrate their victories and honor 
their gods. 

The most ancient inscriptions along the 
upper Nile have not yet been deciphered. 
The story of the Land of the Blacks is 
pretty well known, however, as far back 
as the eighth century before Christ. 

In view of the common origin of the two 
civilizations and their close interrelation 
it is natural enough to find the doings of 
the black kings chronicled after the same 
fashion as their Egyptian cousins. 

Their writing is like that of the Egyp- 
tian, and the gods they worshipped were 
closely related to the gods of Egypt. We 
learn from the inscriptions that when 
Piankhi, the black king, conquered Egypt 
in 750 B. C., he worshipped without ques- 
tion in Egyptian temples, and the carving 
in the excavated ruins, which show men 
and women unmistakably Negro, give evi- 
dence of the similarity of religion. Only 
the idea now is that civilization came down 
the Nile instead of going up. 

The black empire appears to have been 
pretty well run. When the Nubians con- 
quered Egypt they seem to have abolished 
the death penalty and set the prisoners to 
work on public improvements. Indeed, it 
would appear that among the blacks there 
was no custom of putting men to death. 
When it seemed well that a _ criminal 
should be removed he was told of the fact, 
and allowed to commit suicide. Even the 
king was obliged to commit suicide at the 
command of his people. 

When Cambyses, the King of Persia, con- 
quered Egypt he was anxious to see for 
himself whether the stories of the great- 
ness of the black empire were true. He 
sent to the king gifts of gold and palm 
wine and incense, and asked to be informed 
whether or not it was true that on a cer- 
tain spot called the “Table of the Sun,” 
the magistrates put every night provisions 
of cooked meats so that any one who was 
hungry might come in the morning and 
help himself. 

The black king, Nastasenen, received the 
envoys peacefully, though without enthusi- 
asm. He showed them the table of the 
sun, as described to Cambyses, and took 
them to the prison, where the prisoners 
wore fetters of gold, that the Persian 
might be properly impressed. He did admit, 
however, that the palm wine was good. 

Cambyses made war on the blacks but 
did not succeed in gaining much ground, 
so he gave up the idea of winning for 
himself the gold that was so common in 
the Negro empire. 

Candace, the black queen, was a famous 
figure of the empire, tales of whose 
prowess spread to Greece. It would ap- 
pear from the monuments, however, that 
the kingdoni was at that time ruled by 


oO pO 


= nm es ee) 


— 


om te 


am 


ae a Oh eee 


an a we me 


ct i aes Pie tt ee! al 


AFRICAN CIVILIZATION 


queens, each bearing the name of Candace. 
This accounts for the different descriptions 
of the lady, some showing her as very 
beautiful and some allowing her but one 
eye and painting her as very much of a 
haraden. 

These kings and queens, whose records 
have been deciphered, are of comparatively 
recent years—not more than 2,500 or 3,000 
years old. Even more interesting will be 
the results of the excavations of the older 


a Sih 


y= = 
Yi teacoid: —, 


Royal black Nubians sacrificing after Victory. 


glyphics below.) 


ruins. “The Ethiopians,” says Herodotus, 
“were the first men who ever lived,” and 
if they were not the first to live it would 
seem fairly well established that they were 
either the first or among the first to found 
a civilization. 

Within the last ten years there has been 
dug out in Crete the remains of a civiliza- 
tion two thousand years more ancient than 
any hitherto known in Europe. We have 
the actual buildings, the theatres, palaces 


and temples, of Crete in 3000 B. C., and 
we know 


as facts what was guesswork 
even in Homer’s time. Now, that there 
was communication between Crete and 


Egypt 2,000 years before Christ is certain. 
One of the frescoes found at Crete shows 
some religious ceremonial done very much 
in the Egyptian style. Some of the priest- 
esses are white, while others are black. 
How far back the connection between the 
African and Cretan civilization dates is a 
question soon perhaps to be settled. 

At any rate there appear to have been 
two great civilizations at a very early 
time, that in the Nile country, begun and 
largely maintained by black men, and that 


(zetia abe? ees ise 








25 


in Crete. The Cretans seem to have been 
a dark race, rather small, with regular, 
almost Greek profiles and full lips. Nothing 
has been found to indicate that civilization 
came to them or to Africa from Asia, 
whence it was once thought all knowledge 
originated. 

Everything so far unearthed in Crete 
and in the Soudan seems to favor the 
theory that all around the Mediterranean 
there arose, in the Stone Age, a common 


e) 
-——- 
Lad 


eS 


ALI 


PRC ait tatite 


(The victory is recorded in hiero- 
(After Lepsius.) 


race of men who in the course of the cen- 
turies developed differing physical char- 
acteristics, and they peopled Europe and 
Africa where the first civilizations arose 
in Crete and the Soudan. 


So we see that five centuries ago there 
was a high civilization which fell before 
some barbarian invasion, just as Rome fell 
two thousand years ago and remained for 
centuries only a romance and a dream. 
Everywhere we find evidence that there 
was no one commanding race, that all de- 
veloped, some faster than others, a civil- 
ization, 

In some respects we appear to have been 
traveling in a circle; certainly there have 
been considerable declines in civilization 
from time to time, dark ages that fol- 
lowed periods of greatness. There has 
been no steady evolution from the cave 
man to the twentieth-century person, who 
is so ste he stands at the summit. Man 
seems to have progressed more or less 
like the famous frog who jumped three 
feet and fell back two—only sometimes 
man fell back four. 











“DAGGANCOURT” 


By LLOYD OSBOURNE and HENRY E. BAKER 


[The correspondence which follows was called forth by the serial publication in 
Munsey’s Magazine of Mr. Lloyd Osbourne’s novel, “The Kingdoms of the World.” 
Two colored men figure in this story, the one Stokes, a West Point cadet, and the 
other, Victor Daggancourt, a boarder at Mrs. Sattane’s establishment. Matthew 
Broughton, the hero, goes into a project for raising mules in partnership with Dag- 
gancourt.] 





Mr. Liroyp OsBouRNE. 
Dear Sir: 

After reading the opening chapters of 
your interesting new serial, “The King- 
doms of the World,” in the current Mun- 
sey, I find that they leave a rather unwel- 
come impression on my mind with refer- 
ence to the picture you draw of Victor 
Daggancourt. Of course Daggancourt as 
a mere character in the literary world 
you have created may be plausible and 
even pleasing, but Daggancourt as a type 
of “the better educated colored man,” as 
you call him, is not only a positive impos- 
sibility, but a harmful suggestion. 

Whatever may have been the restraints 
placed around the educated colored man 
of other days, tending to stifle his man- 
hood and minimize his self-respect, it cer- 
tainly is not typically true of him to-day 
that he would so demean himself as to 
accept voluntarily the humiliating condi- 
tions upon which Daggancourt was al- 
lowed to remain as a quasi guest at the 
Sattane hostlery; and to put him in that 
light before the reading worid to-day is 
a positive (though I really believe, in 
this instance, an unintentional) unfairness. 

The educated colored men whom I know, 
and I know a whole class of them, would 
neither seek nor tolerate unwelcome asso- 
ciations of the kind you describe. They 
would be no more likely to remain at a 
white boarding house upon the terms you 
define as satisfying Daggancourt than 
would white men remain at a colored 
boarding house upon equally humiliating 
conditions. While it is true that our re- 
spective viewpoints are located on oppo- 
site sides of this question, I am sure never- 
theless that you will appreciate the force 
of my criticism. 

It is by no means the least of the obsta- 
cles to the progress of self-respecting 
colored men that authors of note, influ- 
ential writers in popular magazines and 
newspapers, and many others who daily 
shape public opinion persist consciously or 
unconsciously in holding these men up to 
public contempt and ridicule. Against this 
“rock of offense” they have no redress 
except in the saving sense of fair play 
which may always be relied upon to assert 
itself in the average man of superior qual- 


ities. That is why I am calling your atten- 
tion to the matter. 

I was equally interested, too, in your 
picture of the colored cadet at Annapolis. 
It so happens that I myself was the last 
colored cadet to enter the Naval Academy, 
having spent nearly two academic years 
there in the class of ’79; and the isolation, 
indignities, oppression, persecution and 
general cussedness that dogged my track 
during the whole of my stay there keep 
me wondering to this day how I stood it, 
and why. But I do not recall any experi- 
ence of my life there that could ever have 
led me to write such a letter as you make 
Stokes to send to Broughton after the 
latter’s rescue from the wreck of the Wind- 
sor Castle. 

I have personally known nearly every 
colored cadet who entered either Annapolis 
or West Point—seven all told—and the 
experiences of all of them were practically 
the same, personal slights, unwarranted 
insults, unprovoked assaults and continual 
humiliation. An experience like this does 
not furnish fit soil for the growth of 
such charitableness as you impute to Stokes 
—it is more likely to have the opposite 
effect with the normal boy; but then I 
must not forget that Stokes was only on 
paper (a mere “paper” man, so to speak), 
while we fellows were actually on the 
ground, bearing the real brunt—and giving 
the real grunt. And the echo of that 
grunt is with us yet, “lest we forget.” 

I must remember also that I have seen 
only the beginning of your story, and may- 
be “the half has not been told” either 
as to Stokes or Daggancourt. I shall 
hope to find some compensating circum- 
stances in the coming chapters wherein 
Daggancourt and Broughton may be made 
to tie up to each other in their mule ven- 
ture down in old Kentucky on terms of 
equal commercial advantage and _ with 
mutual personal respect, and wherein 
Stokes may be made to give some account 
of himself in terms that may be trans- 
lated into manly self-respect. So at least 
I hope. 

Yours very truly, 
Henry E. Baker. 


Dear Mr. Baker: 
I read your letter with extraordinary 
interest, and—some chagrin. 








“DAGGANCOURT” 27 


Instead of “our respective viewpoints 
being located on opposite sides of this 
question,” I am most emphatically on the 
side of the colored people in their hard 
progress upward. 

My delineation of Daggancourt was in- 
tended to help, not hinder. 

Do you realize that the injustice of our 
(white) people is so colossal that it is 
already something for a writer to draw 
a colored man endowed with such elemen- 
tary good qualities as affection, trust- 
worthiness, honor, industry, self-respect, 
etc.? 

We novelists cannot make the public read 
us; if it throws down our book in disgust 
we are done for; when we wish to go 
against prevailing prejudices and stupidities 
we need to do it as delicately as though 
treading on eggs. I find it hard to have 
you criticise me, for I meant so well. 

Things I meant ironically you have taken 
with a literalness that does me injustice. 

Take the place, for instance (I am quot- 
ing from memory), where the text runs 
something like this: “But he might linger 
in the doorway without impropriety and 
listen to the superior race.” 

Is the shade of sarcasm too fine to be 
apparent? 

Compare Daggancourt with the other 
members of the boarding house. With 
which of them is the reader most likely 
to sympathize? Why, Daggancourt, of 
course! Is it not accomplishing something 
to achieve that? May it not instill in many 
a man and woman a kindlier feeling 
toward your race? Do you not appreciate 
how we should defeat the purpose we have 
at heart if we offended the reader? Once 
do that and he drops, the book! 

I have dwelt intentionally on all the 
humiliating conditions surrounding Dag- 


gancourt—possibly, indeed, may have exag- 
gerated them—not because I approve—God 
forbid—but to attempt to rouse in the 
reader a spark of my own resentment. I 
consider I should have defeated my pur- 
pose had I made my own view of the mat- 
ter too plain. What I hope to accomplish 
is to make the reader say to himself, as 
though the thought were original to him- 
self: “By George, it is a pretty hard 
world for a decent colored man!” 

I am afraid you will not think this much 
of a victory, but i# is. Probably a million 
people read Munsey’s Magazine, and here 
and there Daggancourt will make a friend. 
The picture of a more advanced, more 
educated, finer, higher type of colored man 
—in the present truly deplorable state of 
public feeling—would make enemies. The 
book, too, remember, will also appear in 
England and in continental Europe (Tauch- 
nitz edition)—in the aggregate a vast field, 
and friendlier than ours. It may even be 
translated into French, German and Nor- 
wegian, as has been the case with several of 
my books. 

I am confident that on rereading my 
story—with what I have said in mind— 
you will find yourself concurring in my 
view. 

As for “better educated than most”— 
that ought not to be construed as a slight 
on the educated colored man. Would you 
not use the expression yourself in regard 
to a mechanic or some such person? 

For the educated, refined, cultivated col- 
ored gentleman, pitted against our terribly 
adverse conditions, I have more sympathy 
and respect than I can well express. My 
heart goes out to him, and with it my hand. 

Believe me, with kindest regards, very 
sincerely yours, 

Luoyp OsBourRNE. 


Ye GW 


THE 


“It was at an Independence Day fes- 
tival at an Illinois town in 1859 that I first 
saw ‘Old Abe,’” writes George T. Ferris 
in the Columbian. “When Mr. Lincoln 
upheaved his awkward length from the 
chair where he sat coiled up it was with 
a tense and active spring and a face beam- 
ing with smiles which transfigured it. 

“Through the general clamor hundreds 
of voices cried ‘Howdy, Abe?’ The speak- 
er’s voice at the outset was a shrill fal- 
setto that cut like a knife; but after talk- 
ing a few minutes it steadied into a 
strident, compelling tone that, never ceas- 
ing to be a little harsh, obsessed attention 
and transmitted dissonance into a more 
subtle music. 


MULE’S ANSWER 


“One could wish to have remembered 
and quoted, for the address bristled with 
homely epigrams and telling stories. But 
half a century obliterates detail in such 
matters, and only two little episodes stand 
out clear. He had just made some allusion 
to Senator Stephen Douglas when one oi 
the mules picketed around the enclosure 
began to bray. 

“*There’s your answer, Abe!’ shouted 
a Douglas partisan in the audience. 

“Very well!’ responded Lincoln, ‘It 
seems to me the mule’s heehaw is about 
the only answer that can be given to the 
four square truth. Steve tried to do it 
last year and couldn’t.’” 





THE BURDEN 


COLORED MEN LYNCHED WITHOUT 


TRIAL. 

BIRR csiaiorcenic 78 eae 102 
PB cate na 71 BE re aw ais 84 
EEE 80 DARD ccia cans: 
IGRG. <5 vad 95 107 
1889...... cc re 86 
ee 90 RRs cp oats 86 
. a 121 1904..... cn ae 
| +: aoe 1905... a 61 
See 154 1906... om 64 
ROME. 5 sikwenuis 134 ROU Sc criscctass 60 
La 112 BO oon. 93 
SE Sccctas st 80 a 73 
EME Oc cas 122 SPM ocx sare 65 

Total.....2,458 


CONCERNING PARKS. 

That Negroes are denied access to public 
parks in some cities of the South is a 
matter of common note. New Orleans 
has numerous playgrounds, but colored 
children may not enjoy them. Colored 
workmen passing through a park must not 
sit upon a bench, and colored mothers may 
not take their little children with them and 
play and rest under the city’s trees in its 
attractive pleasure grounds. But while the 
black mother may not enjoy herself within 
the city enclosure when in company with 
her own babies, she is allowed every privi- 
lege if she is in charge of a white child. 
The black mammy is welcome as long as 
she is neglecting her own offspring for 
those of her white mistress. 

In Memphis, Tennessee, the city’s largest 
park is practically closed to Negroes. Only 
the boldest spirit dare enter, and then ex- 
pulsion is almost certain, This park has 
an excellent zoological garden where white 
children may look as long as they like at 
the curious birds and beasts, but where 
colored children must never feast their 
eyes. 

The colored citizens of Memphis are 
protesting vigorously against park discrim- 
ination, and the city is considering the ac- 
quirement of a park exclusively for the 
Negro’s use. If they should do so, they 
should surely give the colored child a zoo; 
and might not this be a rare opportunity 
for the city fathers to teach racial integrity 
and the color line? Only black bears, or 
dark brown ones, should be on exhibition; 
black panthers, like Bagheera, should pace 
up and down the cages, and dark-plumaged 
birds alone should inhabit the aviary. Of 
course, no hybrid could possibly be allowed. 
One can see the dark brown eyes looking 
out of the little dark brown faces and 
learning at each cage the great lesson of 


consciousness of kind. And plenty of jim 
crows should be flying overhead. 





WHAT IS “UNDUE DISCRIMINA- 
TION”? 

The story of the arrest of Dr. W. J. 
Thompkins, of Kansas City, a prominent 
colored physician, may lead to further im- 
portant discussion of the right of Negroes 
to travel in Pullman cars throughout the 
United States. Dr. Thompkins was called 
to McAlester, Okla., on an important case. 
He purchased a Pullman ticket, but on 
reaching the town of Vinita, Okla. he 
was arrested, taken forcibly from the car 
and placed in jail. Brought before a justice 
of the peace he was fined $13. On 
payment of the fine he was allowed 
to proceed upon his journey. The matter 
will be carried to a higher court, and it 
may be that the Interstate Commerce Com- 
mission will reconsider its opinion in the 
case brought by the bishops of the African 
Methodist Church. In June, 1909, the 
Commission declared that colored passen 
gers were not unduly discriminated against. 
It felt that the small number of colored 
passengers traveling on the through trains 
made it quite right that they should be 
allowed to eat only at the third call for 
dinner, and should endure what the Com 
mission felt was not undue discrimination. 
Dr. Thompkin’s experience should bring 
this whole matter again to the attention 
of the Commission and of the public. 


A CONTRAST. 

Justice D. P. Wright, of Washington, has 
sentenced a colored man to fifteen years 
in the penitentiary for snatching a white 
woman’s pocketbook. In passing sentence 
he said: “From the viewpoint of the white 
women of the National Capital, it is not 
to be tolerated that a colored man should 
dare put his hands on one of them,” and 
“A man of your color, who lays his hand 
on a white woman will not be tolerated, 
if I can help it.” 

On the same day that Justice Wright pro- 
nounced this sentence and dictum his 
court witnessed what the local papers de- 
scribe as a pathetic scene. A young white 
man had been arrested for grand larceny. 
He pleaded guilty, but his aged mother ap- 
peared in court and interceded with the 
judge and with the man who had been 
robbed. The result was that the prisoner 
was Officially given one year in the peni- 
tentiary and then, as soon as this sen- 
tence was pronounced, he was paroled and 
sent home with his mother. 





7 
has 

they 
colo 
tiga 
obj¢ 
pos 
pre: 
pur 
just 





TALKS ABOUT WOMEN 29 


The Interdenominational Ministers’ Union 
has sent a petition to Congress in which 
they. quote the justice’s remarks to the 
colored man and ask for a careful inves- 
tigation. They say that while they “do not 
object to the severity of the sentence im- 
posed, they, nevertheless, deem such ex- 
pressions from the bench as indicative of a 
purpose to punish crime, not according to a 
just and impartial standard, regardless of 


race, class or condition, but with reference 
to the race of the offender and the race 
of the victim. 

“Such a method of administering the law 
is contrary to the traditions and Constitu- 
tion of the government, and of the laws 
themselves, and would result in converting 
courts of justice into instruments of op- 
pression and injustice.” 


TALKS ABOUT WOMEN 


NUMBER FOUR 


By Mrs. JOHN E. MILHOLLAND 





To the woman who wants to vote all sorts 
of advice—good, bad and indifferent—has 
been offered. We all hope that these sugges- 
tions, together with her own supreme effort, 
will quickly bring about that condition which 
to her way of thinking is the one thing 
needful. All honor to these brave women, 
and I am sure Tue Crisis readers believe 
in their ultimate and complete success. 
To-day, however, there is to be a little talk 
to the home makers and to those mothers 
who above all else want to make a success 
of their own particular work in life. 

To these women, who only too often 
have their hands as well as hearts full of 
the cares of their little folk, a word re- 
garding that privilege is sometimes help- 
ful. It is not always an easy matter to 
get rid of little ailments to which almost 
every child seems subject, when often a 
slight knowledge of how to prevent them 
would save not only anxiety but often ex- 
pense. To every mother in many of our 
large cities is given the opportunity for a 
knowledge of hygiene—the right use of 
food and proper ventilation. These in a 


simple form are taught in many public 
schools. But many mothers must work 
alone. All, however, can do something. It 


would be easy, for instance, to see that 
the children of the household were taught 
to breathe properly, that their habits were 
regulated and a desire for wholesome food 
acquired to take the place of the love for 
unwholesome sweets for which American 
children are noted. 

One mother I know takes her small brood 
in front of an open window each morning 
and makes them inhale deep long breaths. 
This must be done through the nose and 
exhaled slowly in the same way. She says 
that such regular and deep breathing keeps 
them from taking cold and helps to purify 
the blood, so that her children are seldom 
ill and never seriously so. Again, this 
same mother contends that a set of daily 
exercises or drills properly and regularly 
followed will build up the most delicate 
child, make in time a strong, straight spine, 


quick, supple movements and give grace 
and poise to the most ungainly boy or 
girl. 

However that may be, it is certainly an 
easy and safe plan to try, and I have 
set down a few exercises as follows: 

Standing straight with feet well together, 
bend over till the fingers touch the toes; 
repeat it two or three times until it be 
comes easy. Of course, the body must be 
bent only from the hips. Then sitting on 
the floor, have the boy or girl bend over, 
keeping the body as straight as possible, 
touching the fingers to the toes. Be very 
careful not to bend the leg, otherwise the 
exercise is of no use. The idea is to stretch 
the muscles of the back, from the waist. 
Not one person in ten, perhaps, is able to 
lie flat on the floor on the back, fold the 
arms and then try to sit up. This is a 
very difficult exercise, but can be acquired 
quite easily by practice and is an excel- 
lent tonic for the muscles of the abdomen. 

So one might go on with these exercises 
which are very simple, but which, when 
rightly done and particularly when fol- 
lowed regularly, will in every case bring 
satisfactory results. They must, however, 
be done in a rcom well ventilated and by 
a person who is interested and is 
really desirous of obtaining certain bene 
fits. 

We mothers, too, have our vocation and 
one that is worth sacrificing much time 
and labor for. The moral development of 
our children is a far less difficult problem 
than their physical well being. When the 
health is good, when the body is well nour- 
ished, the nerves steady, the whole ma- 
chinery kept normal by regular living, 
moral abnormalities are not likely to occur. 
Above all, it should be the mother, not the 
teacher or some little interested stranger, 
who looks after the child’s development. 

“He sings to the wide world, she to her 
nest,” says the poet; and as one who has 
enjoyed the latter privilege, I fully believe 
it is the better part. 








WHAT TO READ 


BOOKS 


Fishberg, Maurice—The Jews; a study of 
race and environment. Scribner 

Johnson, J. P.—The Prehistoric Period in 
South Africa. Longmans 

Nearing, Scott—Social Adjustment. Mac- 
millan 

Steiner, Edward A.—Against the Current. 
Fleming Revell. 


PERIODICALS. 


Using the School House out of School 
Hours. A, Forsyth. The World To-day, 
January. 

Unemployable and the Unemployed. Edith 
Sellers. Living Age, December 24. 

Modern Views of Heredity. C. L. Dana. 
Scientific American, December 24. 

Response of the Animals to Their Envir- 
onment, P. Kropotkin. The Nineteenth 
Century, November and December. 

The Poetry of Lincoln. James R. Perry. 
The North American Review, February. 

Sidelights on Lincoln. Jessie Weik and 
Lambert Tree. Century, February. 

The Discovery of the Fittest. Dr. S, Her- 
bert. The Westminster Review, January. 


THE DISCOVERY OF THE FITTEST. 


“The Discovery of the Fittest,” by Dr. 
S. Herbert, in the January number of The 
Westminster Review, concludes thus: 

“There is no denying the fact that there 
are intrinsic differences between good stock 
and bad. Undoubtedly there exist families 
of exceeding excellence, to which we all 
can point; and, on the other hand, the 
danger arising from the increasing multi- 
plication of the unfit—be they insane, im- 
becile, or morally degenerate—is a real 
one. But whilst admitting to the full the 
importance of the hereditary factor in the 
transmission of such traits, it must not 
be forgotten that potentiality needs a 
proper soil in order to blossom out into 
full reality. The capable are with us; 
so are the degenerate. But so far no 
decisive evidence has been forthcoming to 
show that ability is the privileged posses- 
sion of any one class, just as little that 
degeneracy is confined to the lower strata 
of society. Whilst, then, the Eugenist is 
rightly insisting on the selection of the 
fittest and the rejection of the unfit—and 
it is to his credit to have pointed out the 
necessity of distinguishing between innate 
and acquired characters and their conse- 
quences—it becomes his most immediate 


task for the future to make a careful and 
exhaustive inquiry into the values of the 
diferent social units. Only thus will it 
be assured that the fittest selected are the 
truly select of the nation.” 


[A Voice from the Congo. By Herbert Ward 
Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York.] 

This is an artist’s book, as one sees at 
the first page, and it is the author's gifts 
as an artist that call for first recognition. 
The splendid bronze Congo warrior as 
frontispiece, the Sorcerer, the Mother and 
Children, together with photographs and 
drawings of the implements of the savage 
folk, their swords, shields, potteries, give 
the book its first importance. The writing, 
also, is a series of pictures, graphically told 
and not easily forgotten. 

The Congo river is the center of the 
artist’s story, and we glide down it in a 
canoe while the butterflies, like a white 
cloud, pass beside us; we land alone in 
the night in the wet swamp, up to our 
ankles in water, pestered by myriads of 
mosquitoes, waiting for the elephant that 
we have come to shoot; or we tramp mile 
after mile through the ever sunless, im- 
penetrable forest. The many incidents 
that we see on the way “frequently contain 
tragedy and always more or less suffering.” 
The natives live in continual danger from 
the animal life about them or from their 
own untutored selves, and the white ex- 
plorer rarely lives to return to his home. 
We have a glimpse of Stanley, inflexible, 
successful; and another of the good mis- 
sionaries for whom our writer has only 
words of praise. 

There is one amusing story of the au- 
thor’s attempt, when in charge of a station, 
to introduce an athletic meet among the 
Congo natives. Some hundreds attend and 
first insist that they shall eat at once, run- 
ning afterward. Refreshments over, the 
pistol shot starts them at a hundred-yard 
dash, which resolves itself into a wild 
struggle in which each contestant tries to 
disable his adversary. There is a tremen- 
dous scramble on the ground and when 
at length the goal is reached some fifty 
men pass en masse and all demand prizes. 
“The rest of the afternoon,” the writer 
says, “I found myself in the midst of a 
violent, turbulent mob of people appar- 
ently bereft of all reason . . . and when 
late at night I stretched myself out for 
the night it was with the full conviction 
that the time for introducing sporting 
events into that part of the country was 
not yet ripe.” 


tur 
imj 
toc 
you 
niz 
tha 
the 
gor 
loc 


fr 
me 
W 
wl 
wr 
th 
ge 
tic 
an 


A PROSPEROUS 


The author assures us that he went to 
Africa simply to gratify a love of adven- 
ture, and that he spent five of the most 
impressionable years of his life there. He 
took to Africans from the first. “With 
youthful exuberance,” he says, “I frater- 
nized with everyone I met, and soon found 
that there was a fund of good humor in 
the African composition. There was a 
good side to even the most villainous- 
looking savage, and I generally found it.” 

The more savage the tribe, one learns 
from his book, the more likely are the 
men to have attractive personal qualities. 
Writing of the men of the upper Congo, 
who practiced cannibalism, he tells us, 
“The cannibals are not schemers, and 
they are not mean. When they steal they 
generally grab. Though in direct opposi- 
tion to all natural conjectures, they are 
among the best types of men, representing 





VIRGINIA BANK 31 


the most enlightened and enterprising -of 
the Congo communities.” This, however, 
is contradicted if we consider their treat- 
ment of women. For while a semi-civiliza- 
tion, the civilization of the middle Congo 
and along the coast, brings with it 
stealing and lying and a low cunning, it 
is also accompanied, our author shows us, 
by an improvement in the status of women. 
The savagery that develops high qualities 
in the dominant sex reveals its inherent 
immorality in its treatment of all who are 
physically weak. 

The writer leaves these very human 
people who are often cruel, but who are, 
also, often kind, with the sincere wish 
that they be given a chance; that the 
Europeans who go among them may cease 
persecution and endeavor to lead them to 
high and worthy living. 


Raw 


A PROSPEROUS 


The Mechanics’ Savings Bank of Rich- 
mond, Va., is one of the prosperous insti- 
tutions run by colored men, It was or- 
ganized in 1901 by John Mitchell, Jr., 
capitalized at $25,000, and opened for busi- 
ness in a basement. 

The first year’s 
$122,915. Business 


deposits 
grew with 


amounted to 
year 


every 


VIRGINIA BANK 


and in 1909 the deposits were $480,062, 
making a total, in eight years, of $2,702,236, 


Last year a building costing $100,000 was 
put up. It has five stories and a roof 
garden. The interior is handsome and 
tastefully decorated. Much marble has 
been used in combination with mahogany. 








The Mechanics’ 


Savings Bank, Richmond, Va. 





32 THE CRISIS ADVERTIS:R 


BOOKS 


When our readers wish to know where to buy 
the best books on race and other human problems 
they should consult this list: 





The Curse of Race Prejudice 
James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher 

Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal 
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable 
for propaganda. Read the chapter on “The Bug- 
bear of Social Equality,’’ which is a veritable eye- 
opener. ‘Thousands already sold. Agents wanted 
everywhere. 

PRICE 25 CENTS 
Address the er at _ West 143d Street, 
New York, <; 


aera aes 
Studies of the 
Negro Problems 


13 Monographs. Sold Separately. 


Address: 


A. G. DILL 


Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga. 





The Souls of 
Black Folk 


By W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS 


‘Tt is one of the noteworthy 
books, not merely of a year, but of 
the epoch. Its every page is filled 
with vigor, spontaneity and spirit- 
uality.’’—Boston Transcript. 


‘*A stripping bare of the moral 
and mental anatomy of the African 
in America so as to reveal the naked 
soul in its primitive simplicity, 
seared and scarred by ages of suf- 
fering.’’—New York Age. 


Eighth Edition 


With Frontispiece Portrait of the 
Author. $1.20 Net 


May be ordered through any book 
store or direct from the publishers 


A. C. McCLURG & CO. 


New York CHICAGO San Francisco 





PUBLICATIONS OF THE N.A.A.C. P. 
The N. A. A. C. P. has for sale the following pamphlets: 


i; — franchisement: a powerful argu- 
ment by the Rev. John Haynes Holmes. 

2. Education in the South: Facts about 
the discrimination against the Negro. By 
the Rev. Horace Bumstead, former presi- 
dent of Atlanta University. 

3. The Real Race Problem: A scientific 
comparison of the black and the white man 
by America’s foremost anthropologist, 
Prof. Boas, of Columbia University. 

4. Social Control. By Jane Addams, of 
Hull House. 

5. The Negro as a Soldier. By Brigadier- 
General Burt, U. S. A. 

Five Cents Each, Three Dollars a Thousand 


RACE ADJUSTMENT 


By KELLY MILLER, Howard University, Washing- 
ton, D.C. A Standard Book on the Race Question. 





PRICE $2.00 

SNE) RIO nwa as cee Ww eben on 5 cents 
An Appeal to Reason, open letter 

to John Temple Graves......... 10 cents 
Roosevelt and the Negro......... 10 cents 
Forty Years of Negro Education. .10 cents 
Ultimate Race Problem..... .... 10 cents 
The Political Capacity of the 

RRA. cnuecuus ah ensus wees xtusy 10 cents 


ADDRESS AUTHOR 


Legal Directory 





Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty 


ROBERT B. BARCUS 
ATTORNEY AND CoUNSELOR-AT-LAW 
Norary Pusiic 
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block Columbus, O 





B. S. SMITH 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAw 
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block 
Minneapolis, Minn. 





GEORGE W. MITCHELL 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 
908 Walnut Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 





J. DOUGLAS WETMORE 
ATTORNEY AND CouUNSELOR-AT-LAWw 
5 Beekman Street (Temple Court) 
New York City 
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt Cable Address, Judowet 





FREDERICK L. McGHEE 


ATTORNEY AND CouNSELOR-aT-Law 


Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets 
St. Paul, Minn. 








General Practice Notary Public 
WILLIAM R. MORRIS 
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR-AT-LAW 
1020 Metropolitan Life uildir 
Min 





Mention Tue Crisis 





ons ome ss 


im) 


= 





THE CRISIS 33 


Educational Directory 
Howard University 


WILBUR P. THIRKIELD, President 
Washington, D. C 

The College of Arts and Sciences—Kelly Miller, 
A.M., Dean. 

The Teachers’ College 
Ph.D., Dean. 

The Academy—George J. Cummings, A.M., Dean. 

The Commercial College—George W. Cook, A.M., 








Lewis B. Moore, A.M., 


ean. 
School of Manual Arts and Applied Sciences— 
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS 


The School of Theology—lIsaac Clark, D.D., Dean. 

The School of Medicine: Medical, Dental and 
Pharmaceutical Colleges—Edward O. Bal- 
loch, M.D., Dean. 


The School of Law—Benjamin F. Leighton, 
LL.D., Dean. 


For catalogue and special information address 
Dean of Department. 


Atlanta University 


Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga. 
The courses of study include High School, Nor- 
mal School and College, with manual training 
and domestic science. Among the teachers are 
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith 
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful 
work have been completed. Students come from 
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost 
universally successful. 





For further information address 


President EDWARD T. WARE 


ATLANTA, GA. 





Wilberforce University 
WILBERFORCE, OHIO 


Opens first Tuesday in September 

Located in Greene County, 3% miles from Xenia, 
Ohio. Healthful surroundings. Refined commu- 
nity. Faculty of 32 members. Expenses low. 
Classical and Scientific, Theological, Preparatory, 
Music, Military, Normal and Business Depart- 
ments. Ten industries taught. Great opportuni- 
ties for High School graduates entering College or 
Professional Courses. Two new buildings for girls 
to be erected this year—one now in process of 
erection, and the other to be begun in the spring. 

Catalogue and Special Information Furnished. 

Address 


W. S. SCARBOROUGH, President. 





Sham University 


This institution of learning, esi:blished in 1865, 
has industrial departments for both young men 
and young women, as well as college, normal and 
Pre ratory departments. There are also Schools 

ria Medicine, Pharmacy and Theology. 

re facilities have recently been increased. 
Other improvements are being planned that will 
be completed within the next two years. 

Applications should be made several months or 
a year in advance, for it has become impossible 
during the last few years to receive all who apply. 
The present enrollment is over 500. 

The academic year begins on the Thursday 
nearest the first day of October and continues for 
thirty-two consecutive weeks. The charges are 
moderate. Catalogues furnished upon application. 


Address THE PRESIDENT 
Shaw University, Raleigh, N. C. 





Washington Conservatory of 
Music and School of Expression 
902 T STREET, WASHINGTON, D. C. 


LARGE AND COMPETENT FACULTY 


DEPARTMENTS 


Piano, Voiceand Violin, Piano Tuning, Theory Analy- 
sis, Harmony, Counterpoint, Fugue, Vocal Expression, 


Wind Instruments, History of Music, Methods. 


Scholarships Awarded Artists’ Recitals 


HARRIET GIBBS- M ARSH ALL, President. 
GEORGE WILLIAM COOK, Treasurer 
ABBY WILLIAMS, Secretary. 

LEWIS G. GREGORY, Financial Secretary. 
ANNIE E. GRINAGE. 


Virginia Union University 
RICHMOND, VA. 


A College Department, of high standards and 
modern curriculum. 

A Theological Department, with all subjects 
generally required in the best theological 
seminaries. 

An Academy, with manual training, giving 
a preparation for life or for college. 

The positive moral and religious aim of the 
school, its high standards of entrance and of 
class work, its fine new buildings and well- 
equipped laboratories and library, prepare a 
faithful student for a life of wide usefulness. 


GEORGE RICE HOVEY. President 





Che National ee 
Craining Srhanl, Ue” 


Offers special training to young 
men and women as Settlement 
Workers, Association Secretaries, 
Missionaries, Literary and Other 
Branches. 

The following departments are now 
in successful operation: 


Commercial, Literary, Music, Theological 
Religious Training and Industrial 
FALL TERM OPENS OCTOBER 12 


SUMMER SCHOOL. 

The Summer School and Chautau- 
qua opens July 5, 1911, and closes 
August 14. 

The attractions and advantages 
offered in the Summer School are 
unsurpassed in the country for col- 
ored young men and women. 

Applications should be sent in at 
an early date. 

Loan Scholarships have been es- 
tablished for deserving young men 
and women. 

For further information address 


The President, National Religious 
Training School, Durham, N. C. 


Mention THe Crisis, 





34 THE CRISIS 


Ten Years with Dr. D. C. White 
Telephone 7189 Morningkside 


Dr. JAMES A. BANKS 


DENTIST 
204 WEST 133D STREET, NEW YORK 
Porcelain, Crown and Bridge Work a Specialty 
Pure Nitrous-Oxide Gas Administered 


Can’t See Well? See Me 


when your eyes feel painful, hot, uncomfortable 
and grow weary while reading, writing, sewing 
or looking at near objects, letters run together 
while reading and become blurred. 








Eyes examined by me and fitted with glasses 
accurately made never grow weary, but are per- 
fectly comfortable. You may not like to wear 
glasses, but do you like headaches, red eyes and 
wrinkles better Scientific examinations of the 
eyes for defective eyesight is my specialty. 


Dr. R. G. ADAMS, Optometrist 


Physical Eye Specialist 
16 West 134th Street, New York City, N. Y. 





ADVERTISER 


Sold on 
Write 


A value unequaled. 
$1.00 Profit Margin. 

or prices and other styles. 
send for catalog. 


C.R. Patterson & Sons 
GREENFIELD, OHIO 


Largest Negro carriage concern in the United States 








FOR EXCLUSIVE PATRONAGE, EXCELLENT MEALS 
Call at 


Che National Watters’ Restaurant 


128 W. 53d STREET, Between 6th and 7th Aves. 


We please the critical. \ 
Everything new and well appointed. 


MUSIC SUNDAY AFTERNOON 


LYMAS WILLIAMS, Proprietor 


We serve all parties. 
If we please you tell your friends; if not, tell us. 


Call and see our improvements. 


AND EVENING 





J. A. Phillips & Co.’s Bakery | Your Carpet Needs Cleaning! 


beg to remind you of their 
Superior Bread, Cakes, Pies, Etc. 


They serve the best people and wish to serve you 
throughout the year 1911 


17 WEST 133d STREET 








ADVERTISING RATES 
One page, each insertion.........ccccesees $15.00 
Half page, each insertion........ceccsceress 8.00 
Quarter page, each insertion 4.00 
One inch, one column, each inserti 1.00 
Half inch, one column, each insertion...... 50 


Discounts for insertions of one advertisement for 
three months or more. 








2870-J Harlem. 


W. A. PARKER 


ACCIDENT INSURANCE 
19 WEST 132D STREET 
Agent Continental Casualty Company 


Largest Accident and Health Insurance Company 
in the World 


*Phone 


Let the NEW YORK CAREFUL 
CLEANING BUREAU Do It 
We Clean and Renovate for Particular People— 
from a Rug to a House—by the Vacuum System. 
Let us give you a Clean House for 
the year 1911 


’Phone 3253 Harlem 12 West 135th Street 


TELEPHONE 5277 MORNINGSIDE 


Br. Gertrude £. Curtis 


471 Lenox Avenue, New York City 
SURGEON 
DENTIST 

Office Hours: Bellevue Dental Clinic 

9-12 a.m. Mondays from 
2-9 p.m. 2 to 5 p. m. 


SUNDAYS BY APPOINTMENT 
WOMEN'S and CHILDREN’S WORK A SPECIALTY 


Mention Tue Crisis. 





‘ity 


linic 


Cosmopolitan Automobile School 


The aim of the School will be to 
give its students a sufficient knowl- 
edge of the theory and practice of 
Automobile and Automobiling to en- 
able them to meet the emergencies 
that constantly arise to make those 
who complete the course competent 
to run machines, take them apart 
and assemble them properly, and to 
make such repairs as may be neces- 
sary aoe ossible on the road. 

TUIT V—Six weeks’ course, in- 
cluding a. and Road Work, $25; 
installments if you wish, payable $5 
on enrollment and $20 by the com- 
pletion of the fourth week. 

SHOP WORK—Consists of nam- 
ing all the parts of the automobile, 
taking the engine and the rest of 
the automobile apart and Fae 
them together again properly, and 
making — repairs as may be 
neon and po. 

ROAD WORK—When the shop 
work is complete the student takes 
up the operating and handling of 
cars on the road until he is com- 
petent. 

If there is any special informa- 
tion which you desire respecting the 
course or opportunities in the automobile business we shall be glad to hear from you. 


COSMOPOLITAN AUTO CO. of New York 


Telephone 803 Columbus School: Hotel Maceo, 213 West 53d St. LEE A. POLLARD, Mgr. 








The Firm for the Negro Farmers and Shippers to Deal With 


Try Us Before Shipping Elsewhere. 
FRUITS AND VEGETABLES Oysters AND GAME PouLtry AND Eccs 


COTTMAN & COTTMAN 
WHOLESALE COMMISSION MERCHANTS. 107 Pine Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Reference: The People’s Savings Bank Bell ’Phone Connection: Lombard 4035 


NYANZA DRUG CO.; NYANZA PHARMACY 


(Incorporated.) 





is the only colored Drug Store in New York City, and 


35 W. 135th ST., NEW YORE CITY the purpose of ~ anes is i —— —— = 
stores, carrying Drugs and everything incidental tothe 
CAPITAL STOCK, $15,000 Drug business. It is really the indisputable duty of 
Shares $5.00 every self-respecting member of the race to give it his 

support. 


Write for information. The best paying 
investment ever offered our people. AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE 


SOLOMON GARRETT 


Tonsorial Artist 


782 Fulton Street, near Adelphi Street 
BROOKLYN, N. Y. 


All Kinds of Workmanship 
Cigars and Tobacco for Sale 
Daily and Weekly Papers and Magazines 


Brooklyn Agents for THE CRISIS 








Mention THe Crisis. 





Frederick Douglass Memorial 
finspital and Craining Srhool 


LOMBARD AND SIXTEENTH STREETS, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 


~ 
| aware 
Pr wy 
ne i 
aes 3 


ae 


eee 


oe 
| 
a a 
ce 
Ae 


ce a ee A 


A limited number of free beds maintained for the worthy poor. 

Other ward patients maintained at $7.00 per week. 

Private rooms can be secured from $12.00 to $30.00 per week. 

The training school for nurses maintains a two years’ course. 

A high school certificate, or an education sufficient to be 
considered an equivalent, necessary for admission. 

Five thousand dollars endows a free bed. 


ANDREW F. STEVENS NATHAN F. MOSSELL, M. D. 


President Medical Director and Superintendent 


Mention Tue Crisis. 














