iTik CRISIS 


A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES 


Volume One APRIL, 1911 Number Six 


Edited by W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS, with the co-operation of Oswald Garrison Villard, 
J. Max Barber, Charles Edward Russell, Kelly Miller, W.S. Braithwaite and M. D. Maclean. 


CASTER NUMBER 


Photo by Scurlock. Washington, D. C 


PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE 


National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
AT TWENTY VESEY STREET NEW YORK CITY 


ONE DOLLAR A YEAR TEN CENTS A COPY 








THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the 


ADVANCEMENT of 


COLORED PEOPLE 








OBJECT.—The National Association 
for the Advancement of Colored People 
is an organization composed of men and 
women of all races and classes who be- 
lieve that the present widespread increase 
of prejudice against colored races and 
particularly the denial of rights and 
opportunities to ten million Americans of 
Negro descent is not only unjust and a 
menace to our free institutions, but also 
is a direct hindrance to World Peace 
and the realization of Human Brother- 
hood. 


METHODS.—The encouragement of 
education and efforts for social uplift; the 
dissemination of literature; the holding of 
mass meetings; the maintenance of a lec- 
ture bureau; the encouragement of vigi- 
lance committees; the investigation of com- 
plaints; the maintenance of a Bureau of 
Information; the publication of THE 
Crisis; the collection of facts and publi- 
cation of the truth. 


ORGANIZATION.—AIll interested 
persons are urged to join our organization 
—associate membership costs $1, and 
contributing and sustaining members pay 


from $2 to $25 a year. 
FUNDS.—We need $10,000 a year 


for running expenses of this work and par- 
ticularly urge the necessity of gifts to help 
on our objects. 


OFFICERS.—The officers of the 
organization are: 


National President — Mr. Moorfeld 
Storey, Boston, Mass. 


Chairman of the Executive Committee— 
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New 
York. 


Treasurer—Mr. John E. Milholland, 
New York. 


Director of Publicity and Research—Dr. 
W. E. B. DuBois, New York. 


Executive Secretary—Miss Frances Blas- 
coer, New York. 


Mention 


THE 





COMMITTEE.—Our work is car- 


ried on under the auspices of the follow- 
ing General Committee, in addition to the 
officers named: 


*Miss Gertrude Barnum, New York. 
*Rev. W. H_ Brooks, New York. 
Prof. John Dewey, New York. 
Miss Maud R. Ingersoll, New York. 
Mrs. Florence Kelley, New York. 
*Mr. Paul Kennaday, New York. 
“Mrs. F. R. Keyser, New York. 
Dr. Chas. Lenz, New York. 
Mr. Jacob W. Mack, New York. 
*Mrs. M D. Maclean, New York. 
Rev. Horace G. Miller, New York. 
Mrs. Max Morgenthau, Jr., New York. 
Mr. James F. Morton, Jr., New York. 
Mr. Henry Moskowitz, New York. 
Miss Leonora O'Reilly, New York. 
*Rev. A. Clayton Powell, New York. 
*Mr. Charles Edward Russell, New York. 
Mr. Jacob H. Schiff, New York. 
Prof. E. R. A. Seligman, New York. 
*Rev. Joseph Silverman, New York. 
Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, New York. 
Mrs. Henry Villard, New York. 
Miss Lillian D. Wald, New York. 
*William English Walling, New York. 
Bishop Alexander Walters, cd York. 
Dr. Stephen S. Wise, New York. 
*Rev. John Haynes Holmes, Brash n, N. Y. 
Miss M. R. Lyons, Brooklyn, N ¥ 
*Miss M. W. Ovington, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
*Dr. O. M. Waller, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Mrs. M. H. Talbert, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Hon. Thos. M. Osborne, Auburn, N. Y. 
*Mr. W. L. Bulkley, Ridgefield Park, N. J 
Mr. George W. Crawford, New Haven, Conn. 
Miss Maria Baldwin, Boston, Mass. 
Mr. Francis J. Garrison, Boston, Mass. 
Mr. ee H. Grimke, Boston, Mass. 
"Mr. Albert Pillsbury, Boston, Mass. 
Mr. Wm. aaeece Trotter, Boston, Mass. 
Dr. Horace Bumstead, Brookline, Mass. 
Miss Elizabeth C. Carter, New Bedford, Mass. 
Prest. Chas. T. Thwing, Cleveland, O. 
Mr. Chas. W. Chesnutt, Cseveland, oO. 
Prest. H. C. King, Oberlin, O 
Prest. W. S. Scarborough, Wilberforce, O. 
*Miss Jane Addams, Chicago, III. 
*Mrs Ida B. Wells Barnett, Chicago, II. 
ir. Cc Bentley, Chicago, II. 
Miss 1 oe Breckenridge, Chicago, Ill. 
Mr. Clarence Darrow. Chicago, III. 
*Mrs. Celia Parker Woolley, Chicago, II. 
*Dr. N. F. Mossell, Philadelphia, Pa. 
*Dr. Wm. A. Sinclair, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Miss Susan Wharton, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mr. R. R. Wright, Jr., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mr. W. Justin Carter, Harrisburg, Pa. 
Rev. Harvey Johnson. D.D., Baltimore, Md 
Hon. Wm. S. Bennett, Washington, D. C. 
Mr. L. M. Hershaw, Washington, D. C 
Prof. Kelly Miller, Washington, D. C. 
Prof. L. B. Moore, Washington, D. C. 
Justice W. P. Stafford, Washington, D. C. 
*Mrs. Mary Church Terrell, Washington, D. C 
*Rev. J. Milton Waldron, Washington, D. C. 
Prest. John Hope, Atlanta, Ga. 
Mr. Leslie P. Hill, Manassas, Va. 


* Executive Committee. 


OFFICES: 


Suite 610, 20 Vesey Street, New York. 


Crisis 





tee eet 


mam a ee COU A 


yy -wRA 4 


THE CRISIS 


A Record of the Darker Races 
Contents for April, 1911 





PAGE 
| OEE (Co Cae) |e ge ee ne ee eee 5 
IRN se fier cea a sels oh expats ao: bola. oles rane le: sia avare avis Seca ts Bilewa lathes aver alovaica leis 12 
MS CIRO ME crete hiaii chiles spicuissici eo coltets Suee's '1gPS aha Welw Mik Al ollese Savors 17 
William Stanley Braithwaite—with Portrait....................000000. 18 
Resurrection: a Poem. By William Stanley Braithwaite................. 19 
DAMME ear te icra Sharan einen Bees ies Se A tee eM el 20 
Leaving It to the South. By Charles Edward Russell................... 23 
Color Hysteria. By Oswald Garrison Villard..............0 0000 cee euee 25 
Talks About Women. By Mrs. John E. Milholland................... Zi 
ee MN aay ne ee ees Ng Oe as Shai aiphiiS B Reais ais 28 
AMOR RTM et UE re Bra cct Poot cis Lateoh a tees sese haus si was ov sheln euaiahe ave. oie 29 
Cartesn: “Mr. Lewis Gets His!”” By John Henry Adams.............. 31 

Actual Circulation of THE CRISsis 

MOUGIEROE ...5 06055005005 1,000 copies a 4,000 copies 
eee See 2,500 copies MM so se oe Nang 6,000 copies 
SS eee 3,000 copies | PORES Fei is ee enn 10,000 copies 


Agents wanted who can furnish reliable references. 
Entered as second-class matter in the post office at New York City. 





The May number of THE Crisis will contain: 

@ An article by William Stanley Braithwaite. 
@ A character sketch of Lord Weardale, President of the Races Congress to be held 
next July in London. 
@ How the Negroes of St. Lucia fought for freedom. By Arthur A. Schomburg. 
@ A new department: ‘‘News of Women’s Clubs,” by Mrs. A. W. Hunton, 
formerly Organizer of the National Association of Colored Women’s Clubs. 

Our circulation is growing rapidly, but we must have 25,000. Every reader 
of THE Crisis can by personal solicitation help us to this goal. Probably no maga- 
zine in America has a more interesting set of readers—we have on our books judges, 


financiers, philanthropists, college presidents and scholars, besides the best educated 
colored people of the country. 





COMMENTS ON THE CRISIS 


“I have not yet expressed to You my opinion truth, be it pleasant or unpleasant, is what Negro 
of the magazine which you are now editing. First journalism has wanted for many years. It is also 
of all, I admire the spirit of fairness in which a delightful thing to be able to place your paper 
it is conducted. The assumption that all parties into the hands of the younger generation and call 
are honest in their opinion is a long step for their attention to the good English used in the 
ward in dealing with the race question. I am pages. May Tue Crisis live long and accomplish 
sure that while being conducted in such a spirit its mission.” 
the periodical will be productive of great good. Auice M. (Mrs. 
Then, too, through its columns such abundant in- 
formation is given relative to every phase of the ___ 

Tace question that one who would keep abreast “T have never read a publication that has ap- 
with racial occurrences cannot afford to miss a pealed. to me so strongly as yours. It is ‘brim- 


Paut Lawrence) DuNBaR 
Wilmington, Del. 


single copy.” Geo. F. Porter, tul’ of interesting matter, and I trust that your 
& Py > 5 > 
Kansas City, Kan. efforts will be crowned with great success. 
eS A. W._SHocKLy, 
“I am impressed by the splendid work you Philadelphia, Pa. 


are doing in putting forth a paper that is worth 

while in the highest sense of the word. It is As a contribution to race literature THe Crisis 
bromidic to say that it ‘fills a long-felt want,’ but is unequaled. Impossible to overestimate its 
that is just what it does. Definite facts presented value. Destined to become a perfect encyclopedia 
without exaggeration and shrieking comment; a of information on racial matters.” 

square and honest way of looking at the situation, Mrs. Carrie W. Criirrorp, 
without hysterical unbalance, and above all the Washington, D. C. 








THE CRISIS ADVERTISER 


127-129 West 53d Street 

Marshall’ Ki intel Telephones 4693-4694 Columbus 
SPECIAL FEATURE BEGINNING FEBRUARY 1 

Breakfast, 7:30 to 12:30, 30c. Luncheon, 12:30 to 3 p. m., 30c. 


Regular Dinner, 6 to 8, 35c. 
Special Course Dinner Every Sunday and Holidays, 50c. 


Service and Food Unsurpassed Anywhere Good Music—Vocal and Instrumental 
Shell Fish a Specialty Restaurant Open All Night 
J. L. MARSHALL, Proprietor 


We Print THE CRISIS 


We Print for the Vogue Magazine 


and refer by permission to Mr. Conde 
Nast, Publisher of 


VOGUE MAGAZINE 


Wedding Invitations Printed and 
Engraved. Society and Commer- 
cial Printing a Specialty. A postal 
or the telephone (Lenox 6667) brings 


us to your door. 


ROBERT N. WOOD 


202 EAST 99th STREET NEW YORK 





*Phone 2877 Lenox J. N. Washington Mrs. J. N. Washington 
: ° : ’ Proprietor Manager 
White Rose Working Girls’ Gome , 
217 EAST 86TH STREET Gotel Washington 
Bet. Second and Third Avenues 3252 WABASH AVENUE 
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls, CHICAGO 
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home ; 
solicits orders for working dresses, aprons, etc. First-class Service for First-class People 
Address: Rates: 75c., $1.00 and $2.00 Per Day 
MES. FRANCES R. KEYSER, Supt. Telephone Aldine 516 


Mention Tre Crisrs. 


7wn 


co DM vonDhy 


ze 


— AS pwn 


Along the Color Line 


POLITICS. 

President Taft has signed a recess 
appointment for W. H. Lewis, a Boston 
Negro, as Assistant Attorney-General. 
shortly before Congress adjourned 
Lewis's name was sent to the Senate, 
but that body failed to confirm the 
appointment. It is believed there will 
be a strenuous fight against the appoint- 
ment when it is taken up at the next 
session of Congress. 

Lewis is expected to arrive in Wash- 
ington in a short time to take the oath 
of office. Southern men say his appoint- 
ment is sure to precipitate the color line 
proposition in official life in the city. 

William H. Lewis was born in Berke- 
ley, Va., November 28, 1868, and attend- 
ed the public schools at Portsmouth. He 
was fitted for college at the State school 
at Petersburg, Va. He entered Amherst 
in 1888 and was graduated in 1892. There 
he was not only a famous athlete, but 
an excellent student. He was graduated 
from the Harvard law school in 1895, 
after playing for two years on the foot- 
ball team, being regarded as the greatest 
center rush of his day. For several years 
after his graduation he coached the 
Harvard teams, winning the reputation 
of being the greatest defensive coach in 
the country. In 1896 he married Eliza- 
beth Baker, of Cambridge. He served 
two years in the Cambridge common 
council and was elected to the State 
Legislature. He was appointed Assistant 
United States District Attorney, and was 
sworn in January 31, 1903. He is a prac- 
ticing lawyer in Boston and lives in 
Cambridge. This is the first time that 
a Negro has been named for such a 
prominent position in the department. 
Mr. Lewis will succeed John G. Thomp- 
son, who resigned recently to take up 
private law practice in Danville, Ill. The 
place pays $5,000 a year. 


@ J. C. Napier, of Nashville, Tenn., has 
been nominated as Register of the Treas- 
ury of the District of Columbia, to suc- 
ceed the Hon. W. T. Vernon. Mr. 
Napier was born in Tennessee in 1848, 
and educated at Wilberforce and Ober- 
lin. He graduated at Howard in law 
and has been a civil service clerk, inter- 
nal revenue agent, and banker. He mar- 
ried the only daughter of John M. Lang- 
ston. 


@ Mr. George Wallace, a former col- 
ored member of the Georgia Reconstruc- 
tion Legislature, is dead. 





@ In California some eight thousand 
Negroes in the State will be deprived 
of votes by the effect of a constitutional 
amendment introduced in the senate if 
that measure is passed by the legisla- 
ture. In addition all the native born 
Chinese will be denied franchise. 


Caminetti’s constitutional amendment 
provides that the son of a person not 
entitled to vote in 1879 shall not be 
permitted to vote to-day. As all the 
Negroes up to that time were disfran- 
chised their sons will not be permitted 
to attend the polls under the present 
eading of the amendment. 


Two Chinese, Walter U. Lum and Lee 
Wong, officers of the Chinese parlor of 
the Native Sons of the Golden State, 
will appear before the committee to op- 
pose the measure. 


Colored people have held a large mass 
meeting in Stockton to oppose this 
measure. 


@ Negro policemen have been appointed 
in Plainfield, N. J. 


THE COURTS. 


In Seattle, Washington, Miss Ethel 
Hostrawser, a high school girl of that 
city, is to share to the extent of more 
than a million dollars in the settlement 
of the famous Crawford estate of Scot- 
land, Ireland and England, which has 
been in chancery for a number of years; 
and which, when it passed into the 
hands of the British government, was 


worth $6,500,000. 


The heir to this estate has been found 
in Mrs. Esther Campbell, of Vancouver, 
B. C., grandmother of Miss Hostrawser, 
who has been fighting the case for a 
year or more in England. Word has 
been received that it finally has been 
straightened out and that as soon as 
certain legal formalities demanded by 
the British law have been complied with, 
the estate will be distributed. 


A. Garfield Harrison, a learned and 
skilful colored lawyer of Seattle, has 
been working on the case for a year or 
more and furnished the money to fight 
the suit in England and Ireland. He 
will also participate to some considerable 
extent in the distribution. In the early 
stages of the case the proofs looked so 
clear to him that he took it on a con- 
tingent fee. He accompanied Mrs. 
Campbell to England and is still there 
closing up the final details. 








6 THE CRISIS 


@ For the first time in the history of 
Texas a jury, of which half are Negroes, 
is trying a white man for his life. The 
six Negroes and white men must eat 
and sleep together for perhaps ten days 
or two weeks. The jury cannot go to 
a restaurant for its meals, for the white 
restaurants will not serve Negroes, and 
the jury cannot be separated. 

The case is that of Earl McFarlane, 
a former policeman, charged with the 
murder of Deputy Police Chief Will 
Murphy,. of Houston, last April. The 
case came to Galveston on a change of 
venue, and there are 450 witnesses from 
all parts of Texas. 


@ Oil lands valued at $10,000,000 which 
lie in the region of Tulsa, Bartles- 
ville, Chelsea, Nowata and Lenapah, 
have been awarded to the Negroes who 
formerly were slaves of the Cherokee 
Indians, by a recent decision of the 
Supreme Court of the United States. 
The decision is the outcome of a suit 
which had been pending in the high 
court since 1892. 


At the time of the filing of the suit 
little was known of the precious min- 
erals which underlaid them. Since then 
these lands have proved to be among 
the greatest oil-producing properties 
in the world, and the cabins of the 
Negro farmers have been replaced by 
the gaunt skeletons of derricks, pros- 
perous cities and towns and a bustling 
commonwealth. 


@ That the term “colored” includes all 
persons “wholly of Negro blood or hav- 
ing any appreciable admixture thereof” 
was the way in which the court of ap- 
peals of Kentucky construed the State 
school law of the subject in a decision 
handed down recently. 

Suit was brought by one Leroy Mul- 
lens against the school trustees of a 
district in Pike county demanding the 
admittance of some children for whom 
he acted as guardian. The Pike county 
circuit court denied the children admit- 
tance to the school, holding that they 
were “colored,” being of one-sixteenth 
Negro blood, and under the State law 
prohibiting “colored children” from at- 
tending a white school, were therefore 
debarred. The case was carried to the 
court of appeals and the decision of that 
court has the effect of upholding the 
Pike county court and the school trustee 
who refused to enroll the children as 
pupils. 


@ Luella Leftridge is the eleven-year-old 
girl who is fighting for her release from 
a Negro institution in which she has 
been confined for seven years. The child 
was left in the institution by an aunt, 
who has since disappeared, and for more 
than a year an older sister, who declared 


that there is not a drop of Negro blood 
anywhere in the family, has been strug- 
gling for the removal of the stigma and 
the release of the child. Last week the 
Johns Hopkins physicians, headed by, 
Dr. John Whitridge Williams, com- 
menced an examination, during which 
they applied every test known to the 
profession, and Dr. Williams confessed 
that it is impossible to declare positively 
just which race the girl belongs to. 


SOCIAL UPLIFT. 


H. W. Bass, of Philadelphia, who is 
a Negro, the first to sit in the Pennsyl- 
vania Legislature, offered a bill aimed to 
further operate against discrimination 
against Negroes in public places. It pro- 
vides that charging an unusual or exces- 
sive price, or compelling a person to sit 
in “particular, special or isolated seats,” 
shall be evidence oi intent to violate the 
act. Instead of providing a fine of $50 
to $100 for each offense, as in the case in 
the act of 1887, on the same subject, the 
Bass bill provides a fine of $20 for the 
first offense, $50 for the second and im- 
prisonment for 30 days for each subse- 
quent offense. 


@ In Washington, D. C., more than one 
thousand persons gathered recently in 
Convention Hall to witness the incep- 
tion of track athletics for the colored 
schools and clubs in the South. It was 
the first meet ever held solely for col- 
ored athletes, and that it was a success 
is attested by the fact that no more 
enthusiastic crowd ever gathered to 
cheer on their favorites to victory. It 
was not only the colored people who 
were present, but several white men who 
are prominent in educational affairs in 
this and other cities gave their sanction 
and good will toward the furtherment 
of the affair by their presence. 

While it was not expected that the 
meet would develop anything in the 
way of especially classy performances, 
it is certain that it accomplished that 
for which it was primarily intended— 
to stimulate interest in that branch of 
sport among the colored colleges in the 
South. And there were some fair per- 
formances in the races also. The 440- 
yard dash, scholastic, was run in 614-5 
seconds, which was very good time con- 
sidering the scanty training advantages 
that the contestants have enjoyed. The 
time made in some of the relay races 
was also fair. 

Ralph Elwood Brock, superintendent 
of nurseries at the Pennsylvania State 
forest academy, Mont Alto, for a number 
of years, will retire from that position 
and will establish himself as a consult- 
ing and contracting forester at West 
Chester. 

He has been one of the most valuable 
men in the employ of the department 
of forestry and much of the very good 


a ~. escoem a 


et a ae ee ee 


~ 


ee ae ae ee ee ae a ee 


is 


to 
ion 
ro- 
es- 

sit 
i. 
the 
$50 
in 
the 
the 
im- 
se- 


ne 

in 
ep- 
red 
vas 
-ol- 
ess 
ore 

to 

It 
vyho 
vho 

in 
ion 
ent 


the 
the 
ces, 
hat 
i. 
of 
the 
er- 
140- 
4-5 
on- 
ges 
The 
ices 


lent 
tate 
ber 
tion 
ult- 
lest 


ible 
lent 
ood 


ALONG THE 


results at the Mont Alto nurseries is 
due to his intelligent and indefatigable 
work. 





Ralph Elwood Brock 


During 1910 there were shipped 699,- 
629 trees. Of these 434,900 were white 
pines two years old; 71,800 Scotch pines, 
one and two years old; 100,000 white 
ash; 26,824 sugar maples; 17,555 black 
walnuts and a dozen other species in 
smaller amounts. 


The immense operations of the nur- 
series are apparent from these figures. 
As said, Mr. Brock is entitled to very 
much of the credit for this result. He 
has not only busied himself assiduously 
in the nurseries, but has been a very 
diligent student and an extensive trav- 
eler. 


@ Macon, Ga., is to have a Negro hos- 
pital, operated by private parties. An 
organization has been formed by the 
Negro physicians, nurses, dentists and 
druggists of the city, and a fund of 
$6000 has been subscribed. The city 
will be asked for a site, and if it is 
secured the hospital will be built without 
delay. 


@ At the forty-second annual session of 
the Louisiana Freedmen’s Baptist Sun- 
day School Association, the members, 
enthusiastic for the religious and moral 
upbuilding of the Negro race, pledged 
themselves to raise funds for the erec- 
tion of a Negro library. The plans have 
not as yet taken definite shape, but ac- 
cording to the resolutions adopted the 
project will be industriously pushed. 


@ The eighth annual conference of Col- 
ored Women’s Clubs of Rhode Island 
has been in session at Providence. Com- 
plaints were made of discrimination 
against colored candidates for appoint- 
ment to public schools. 


COLOR LINE 7 


q@ A colored man, J. K. Taylor, now over 
sevently years of age, has given 480 
acres of rich farming land as a site for 
the sanatorium of the Sumner National 
Tuberculosis Association for colored 
consumptives. 


@ Young Women’s Christian Associa- 
tions are being founded in Kansas City 
and St. Louis. 


@ The New York Assembly committee 
on military affairs is getting suggestions 
as to the advisability of the formation 
of a colored regiment in the National 
Guard. Assemblyman Brooks, a mem- 
ber of the committee, received letters 
from R. J. Shand, acting adjutant gen- 
eral of Illinois, and Edward T. Miller 
of the Ohio State department regarding 
the colored regiment of these States. 

Mr. Shand states that there was a 
colored battalion in Illinois before the 
Spanish-American War and later that it 
was increased to a full regiment. The 
regiment, he says, is still in service and 
ranks well. 

Regarding the Ohio colored troops, 
Mr. Miller says they are good soldiers 
and last year were rated among the best 
in the State National Guard by United 
States inspectors. 


ECONOMICS. 

In Indianapolis with more than five 
thousand persons in attendance the dedi- 
catory exercises of the new Pythian tem- 
ple, built by the colored Knights of 
Pythias of Indiana, were held. The 
occasion brought to the city several na- 
tional and all the State officials of the 
order. The eleven city lodges marched 
to the hall, accompanied by the officials 
in carriages. The Rev. W. H. Weaver, 
pastor of Senate Avenue Presbyterian 
Church, made the dedicatory address, in 
which he commended the enterprise of 
the colored Pythians which had made 
the building possible. He followed the 
history of Pythianism in Indiana from 
its start, in 1894, to the present time. 
There are now, he said, more than 3,500 
knights in this State, with $2,500 in an 
endowment treasury for the support of 
widows and orphans, and $17,000 in the 
treasuries of the subordinate lodges of 
the State. 


@ In Galveston, Texas, the colored soci- 
eties have just purchased a hall for 


$7,583. 


@ White firemen of the Cincinnati, New 
Orleans and Texas Pacific Railroad have 
struck because of a controyersy over 
Negro firemen. ‘The strike was in re- 
sponse to an order from a committee 
of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Fire- 
men and Enginemen. The action was 
taken by the Union after a conference 
with T. Powell, vice-president of the 





8 THE CRISIS 


railroad, had failed to result in an agree- 
ment. 

While the union officers were busy 
sending out the strike orders Mr. Pow- 
ell dictated a telegram to Washington 
asking mediation under ‘the Erdman act. 
The union officers refused to join in a 
request for mediation, asserting that 
their experience had led them to believe 
that the men would lose rather than 
gain by such a course. 

The strike is due to a dispute as to 
the status of Negro firemen. The union 
asserts that the working agreement with 
the road provides that Negroes are ineli- 
gible to any work except on local and 
slow freight trains and on yard engines. 
The railroad disputes this and asserts 
that their Negro employees are entitled 
to promotion on the same terms as the 
white men. About 220 firemen are on 
the roster of the road. 


The whole movement is simply a con- 
tinuation of the Georgia strike of two 
years ago. Eleven men are dead as a 
result of the disorder. 


@ The failure of the Metropolitan Mer- 
cantile and Realty Company in New 
York has resulted in criminal proceed- 
ings. 

The company was incorporated under 
the laws of New Jersey with a capital 
of $1,000,000. It is alleged that during 
the ten years of its existence it has got 
considerable sums of money by fraud- 
ulent devices from colored folk in New 
York and various parts of the country. 
About two weeks apo the attention of 
District Attorney Clarke was called to 
the matter by Rufus L. Perry, a Negro 
lawyer, and several specific charges of 
fraud have been made against the officers 
of the company. Other arrests are ex- 
pected. 

Attorney Perry says that the company 
opened handsomely furnished offices at 
Eighth Avenue and Forty-sixth Street. 

“No wonder,” he said, “that the col- 
ored people fell for it. The officers de- 
clared that they were going to open a 
bank for Negroes, would conduct a great 
grocery store and would even build a 
magnificent church. But the greatest 
asset of all was the promise that they 
would buy land situated not in the out- 
skirts of the city but right in the heart 
of the fine residential section, where the 
Negroes would own homes and live in 
equal social equality with the white peo- 
ple around them. When dividends were 
due on stock the company would pay 
with more stock.” 


@ In Richmond, Va., 750 delegates from 
27 States have been meeting for the pur- 
pose of untangling the affairs of the 
‘srue Reformers’ Industrial Insurance 
Society. The State Commissioner of In- 
surance said to them in a speech: 


“I have a great interest in you people 
because your organization has done more 
for the uplift of the Negro than any 
other fraternity in your race. It pained 
me when it got into its present posi- 
tion, and I pledge you any legitimate 
support that I can give you. From the 
progress that you are making under 
present conditions, you need not be dis- 
couraged. I am sure that this splendid 
body of men and women and your race 
will save the organization.” 


QA bill that threatens to reopen the 
slumbering Japanese question was intro- 
duced into the California legislature 
The measure is termed an alien land 
bill and provides for the excluding from 
ownership or lease of agricultural lands 
any alien not eligible to become a citi- 
zen of the United States. 

“T have studied this subject for many 
years,” said the senator who introduced 
the bill. “There are 200,000 acres of the 
best agricultural lands in California 
owned by aliens who cannot be assimi- 
lated, practically, all Japanese and Chin- 
ese. These aliens should not be per 
mitted to get a foothold, for with the 
same ratio of growth that they now have 
they will control the agricultural re- 
sources of California in ten years. The 
race question also will be a factor, and 
compared with the situation in Califor- 
nia the Negro question in the South is 
simple.” 


@ There is a colored bank in Chicago 
and also one in Springfield, Illinois. 


@ Negroes struck at the fertilizer mills 
near Charleston, S. C., but were quickly 
overawed by the police. A few returned 
to work. 


@iIn Brownstown, Southern Indiana, 
four Negroes who had come to work 
for a contractor left for their homes in 
Kentucky. They had been there for two 
days and had found it impossible to 
get anything to eat or a place to sleep. 
No one would sell them meals or supply 
them with beds. 

For two nights they slept in a shed 
on a vacant lot just outside the town 
limits, and all they could get to eat was 
what a kindly woman gave them as 
charity. She refused to take pay and 
advised them to leave. 


THE GHETTO. ! 

The West ordinance has been reintro- 
duced into the Baltimore City Council 
and is entitled, “An ordinance for pre- 
serving peace, preventing conflict and ill 
feeling between the white and colored 
races, and promoting the general welfare 
of the city of Baltimore by providing as 
far as practicable for the use of separate 
blocks by. white and colored people for 
residences, churches and schools.” 








— — = - 


os mae 


Se a ee ee 


ALONG THE 


Section 3 provides that “nothing in 
either of the two foregoing sections shall 
be construed or deemed to prohibit do- 
mestic servants from residing with their 
employers in the house or building where 
said servants may be so employed.” 


@ New Orleans wants additional “Jim 
Crow” legislation for carnival occasions 
and for segregation. 


@ Although Senator Boies Penrose has 
promised the colored leaders that the 
objectionable features to them in the 
new school code of Pennsylvania will be 
eliminated, a committee has been ap- 
pointed to go to Harrisburg to combat 
certain features of the proposed measure. 
Representative colored men claim the 
code bill permits racial discrimination 
in the public school system of the State. 


@ The Richmond, Va., segregation ordi- 
nance has been temporarily tabled. 


q@ St. Louis, Mo., and Birmingham, Ala., 
are proposing a ghetto. 


@ Miss Sarah Wilson, a colored school 
teacher in Worcester, an instructor in 
Belmont Street school, by buying and 
moving into a three-tenement house at 
4 Pelham Street, has turned that select 
residential district into a typical South- 
ern town, so far as feeling is concerned, 
and has got property owners so wrought 
up that recently the word was sent out 
that a meeting was going to be called to 
see what can be done to induce Miss 
Wilson to sell the property. 


@ Because Iowa University refused to 
leave Alexander, a colored halfback, on 
the side lines when it played football 
with the University of Missouri, the 1911 
game has been called off. Alexander is 
the only colored man that has played on 
the Iowa team in recent years. He will 
graduate a year from next June, so that 
Jowa may be on the Missouri schedule 
year after next. 


@ Negro women and white women will 
no longer occupy the same rooms at a 
Kentucky workhouse. The Mayor said 
recently that the work of putting in parti- 
tions at the institution had been started 
and will be completed within about ten 
days. These partitions will separate the 
whites and blacks. 


“There has been only one white woman 
at the workhouse since I became 
mayor,” said Mayor Head, “and she has 
not mingled with the Negro inmates. 
She was given a room to herself in an- 
other part of the institution. I requested 
Judge Boldrick not to send white women 
to the workhouse as long as it was so ar- 
ranged that Negroes and whites could 
not be kept in separate wards.” 


COLOR LINE 9 





Dr. W. J. Thompkins, Kansas City 
(March Crisis, p. 28) 


@ Daisy B. Harris, a comely looking 
young woman, to all appearances white, 
was married to Charles Schrader, of Ma- 
rion, Va., on a recent Sunday. Following 
the marriage it was rumored that the 
bride was one-eighth Negro in blood, 
and this being illegal under the State law 
the matter was brought to the attention 
of the grand jury and _ indictments 
against both bride and groom followed. 
The couple had prepared for a bridal 
trip and were released under bonds of 
$500 each. 


@ The division of Michigan’s track squad 
into the two teams which Craig and 
Horner are to lead against each other 
in the meet in Waterman Gymnasium 
seems to have again torn open the race 
problem that created so much dissension 
in the Wolverine camp last fall. 

The meet is to serve as the try-outs 
for the ’Varsity track team, and will in 
a very large measure determine the per- 
sonnel of the squad that will be taken 
to Syracuse on the following week end. 
In making up the list of competitors for 
this meet the name of Lapsley, the col- 
ored sprinter who ran away from all the 
other contestants in the freshman-so- 
phomore meet, was omitted, and this de- 
spite the fact that Lapsley is a sopho- 
more eligible for ’Varsity competition 
and regularly entered. The athletic au- 
thorities explain that it is necessary to 
restrict the number of participants, and 
that Lapsley has run but one race and 
that in but one meet. Lapsley ran the 
35-yard dash three times recently, win- 
ning every heat handily and demonstrat- 
ing his superiority over six of the men 
who were given places in the coming 
trials. 

It seems altogether probable that the 
fight will become so hot that it will be 








10 THE CRISIS 


necessary to allow the colored runner 
to seek a place on the squad. The trou- 
ble last year arose when the crowd hissed 
when a colored runner won one of the 
heats in an indoor meet. At that time 
the college publication took the view- 
point that a Negro had no right to 
participate in athletics; that he should 
be barred from participation in the pub- 
lic activities of the university. The Ne- 
gro who competed last season did not 
display much, if any, class, and as he 
was in no sense a competitor for a place 
on the ’Varsity the issue was not forced. 


@ Negroes will not be admitted to the 
reception to Colonel Theodore Roosevelt 
in the French Opera House, New Or- 
leans, La. A delegation of prominent 
Negroes were informed, in reply to an 
inquiry as to what provision would be 
made for their race, that the reception 
was being given under the auspices of 
the Progressive Union, and that it had 
no political aspect whatever. 


THE CHURCH. 

Cardinal Gibbons, in a letter to Cath- 
olic churches, says: 

“The money which you have contribu- 
ted of late years has been very fruitfully 
employed, among both the Negroes and 
the Indians. Our schools and churches 
have been supported and many new ones 
built. 


“But the good done is very small in- 
deed in comparison to what is yet to be 
done. Among the millions of Negroes 
in the Southern States Catholics are 
only a handful. In one State, for exam- 
ple, we have only 700 Catholics in a 
population of more than a million and 
a quarter Negroes. The religious condi- 
tion of these vast multitudes is most 
deplorable. They are abandoned by 
Protestantism to themselves. Having no 
white ministers, they depend for their 
religious instruction and guidance and 
for their moral elevation upon preachers 
of their own race, who are very inade- 
quately equipped for their duties. Only 
the Catholic church, with its watchful- 
ness, its strong moral discipline and 
powerful religious helps, can raise the 
Negro to that plane which belongs to 
him as a man and a Christian.” 


@ Race feeling which developed among 
the Southern delegates to the Salvation 
Army conference held in Washington 
the last week in February resulted in 
the abandonment for the time being of 
the army’s plans for the organization 
of a movement among the colored peo- 
ple of the United States. 

A storm of protest went up from the 
officers from the South when a North- 
ern delegate proposed that white officers 
be required to conduct meetings among 
the colored people. They virtually de- 


clared they would not assume such 
duties, with the result that the commit- 
tee appointed at the same meeting to 
draft a plan for the new work was dis- 
charged before it had time to commence 
work. 

Commander Evangeline Booth, head 
of the American Salvation Army, said 
before leaving for New York that if 
necessary a Salvation Army with col- 


ored leaders to conauct the meetings 
will be organized. 
“We thought it better to drop the 


matter temporarily,” said Miss Booth, 
“owing to the feeling among our South- 
ern officers. 

“They have worked amid a vast col- 
ored population for years, and I presume 
they know more about the colored peo- 
ple than the rest of us. I have no criti- 
cism to make against them. Our plans 
were never matured. I think the matter 
was never formally discussed among us 
before. 

“There are practically no colored peo- 
ple engaged in Salvation Army work 
in this country. In India we have native 
officers in command, and I suppose it 
would be just as well, if not better, to 
have colored officers here. I am confi- 
dent we shall accomplish a great deal 
for the general welfare.” 


EDUCATION. 


Of the four orators who have been 
chosen to speak in the final contest for 
the Curtis Medals at Columbia Univer- 
sity, one, G. W. A. Scott, ’11, is a Negro 
Scott has selected the topic “Child 
Slavery.” As a junior a year ago he 
competed in the Curtis contest and won 
one of the two medals. The three other 
candidates who weathered the elimina- 
tion trials are A. M. Grill, ’11, “Woman 
Suffrage”; P. M. Beck, ’11, “Character 
and Social Achievement,” and A. W. 
Macmahon, 712, “Public Opinion and the 
People’s Rule.” 


@ The’ greatest excitement prevails 
among the patrons of Roanoke College, 
as well as among Confederate veterans 
owing to the introduction of a history 
of the United States which carries para- 
graphs relating to the treatment of 
Negro women in slavery days by their 
masters. The history is also said to 
vilify Robert E. Lee. The history is 
entitled “A History of the United States 
by H. W. Elson.” Mr. Elson is said to 
be a former Kansas classmate of Prof. 
H. J. Thorstenburg, who is Professor of 
History at the college. 

The chief objection to the work is an 
extract from page 55, which reads in 
part: 

“The most revolting feature of slav- 
ery in America, one that the historian 
blushes to record (but history must deal 
with factsy is that too often the attract- 


ALONG THE COLOR LINE V1 


ive slave woman was a prostitute to 
her master, that their children bore the 
stamp of his countenance, and yet, ac- 
cording to the inflexible rule of the slave 
States, they shared the condition of the 
mother and were sold by their own 
father; this evil was widespread at the 


South, as the mixed condition of the 
black race to-day will testify. _ 
“A sister of President Madison de- 


clared that though the Southern ladies 
were complimented with the name of 
wife, they were only the mistresses of 
the seraglio. A leading Southern lady 
declared to Harriet Martineau that the 
wife of many a planter was but the 
chief slave of the harem.” 


@ Tuskegee Institute will benefit to the 
extent of several hundred thousand dol- 
lars under the will of Emmet Densmore, 
manufacturer of patent medicines, filed 
recently in New York State. After 
various life estates created by the will 
have lapsed, all the testator’s property, 
or as much as the law will allow to be 
given for such purposes, is to go to the 
school. 


@ Miss O'Hagan has left $10,000 to 
Negro Catholic schools of Baltimore. 


CRIME. 

Mr. Booker T. Washington, principal 
ot Tuskegee Institute, while calling at 
an apartment house in West 63d Street, 
New York, was set upon by one of the 
tenants and several bystanders. Mr. 
Washington ran, but was severely beaten 
before the police interfered. 


@ At Murfreesboro, Tenn., one of the 


most unusual trials ever held at that 
place was ended after a_ session of 
three days, when the jury in the 


case of Lonzo Woods and David Cook, 
both colored, charged with criminal as- 
sault upon Miss Hula Bodily, a young 


white woman, returned a verdict of 
acquittal. 

@ About 1,000 men and boys, mostly 
boys, mobbed the Negroes who were 


abroad in the business districts of Fort 
Worth the other night. For two hours 
the mob surged along Main Street seek- 
ing victims. 

The riot was precipitated by efforts of 
white men to operate a moving-picture 
show exclusively for Negroes at the cor- 
ner of Eleventh and Main Streets. As 
early as 7 o'clock the mob began form- 
ing in front of the place, but the Negro 
ticket taker remained at his post until 
half a brick was sent flying through the 
window. Other missiles followed the 
first, and in a minute the interior of the 
moving-picture show house was in dark- 
ness. 

30oys around the edge of the crowd 
caught sight of a few Negroes near by 


and some one suggested, “Let’s run 
them.” Like wildfire the suggestion 
passed from mouth to mouth, and a min- 
ute later four Negroes were being pum- 
meled, but escaped without serious in- 
jury. 

That started the trouble and created 
an appetite for a general round-up. The 
police did not interfere. 


CANADA AND COLORED FOLK. 

A letter of inquiry from Tue Crisis 
has brought this reply from the Commis- 
sioner of Immigration at Winnipeg: 
Dear Sir: 

I beg to acknowledge receipt of your 
letter of March 4, and to say in reply that 
the report in the American press that 
the Dominion Government has issued a 
decision denying colored people entrance 
into Canada as settlers is not in accord- 
ance with the facts. No decision of any 
kind has been arrived at, and none has 
seemed to be necessary. Colored people, 
like every other people, are under the 
Canadian Immigration Law when they 
enter the country, and, being liable to its 
conditions, are rejected, as others are re- 
jected, for failure to comply with the 
same. 

Yours faithfully, 
(Signed) Joun C. WALKER, 
Commissioner. 

Further inquiry of the Superintendent 
of Immigration at Ottawa brings these 
additional explanations: 

No regulation or order has been made 
or issued, but I may say that it is not 
the policy at present of the government 
to encourage the settlement of colored 
people in Canada, as it is believed that 
the climate and other conditions of this 
country are not such as would be found 
congenial to colored people. Canada has 
not a very large colored population, and 
of those we have, only a comparatively 
small number are engaged in agriculture. 
There has been a considerable move- 
ment of white people from the Eastern 
to the Western provinces of Canada, but 
no appreciable movement of colored peo 
ple, a fact which leads the government 
to believe that Western Canada will not 
be found very suitable as a field for set- 
tlement to colored people from the 
United States when similar people from 
Canada do not go west to take up land. 
There is nothing in the Canadian Immi- 
gration Law which debars any person 
on the ground of color, but since col- 
ored people are not considered as a class 
likely to do well in this country all our 
other regulations respecting health, 
money, etc., are strictly enforced, and 
it is quite possible that a number of 
your fellow countrymen may be rejected 
on such grounds 

Your obedient servant, 
(Signed) L. M. Fortier, 
for Superintendent of Immigration. 








OPINION 


EDUCATION. 

The extremely interesting correspon- 
dence which follows is clipped from the 
Charlotte, N. C., Observer. The first 
letter is signed “White Taxpayer.” The 
reply is from Mr. Charles L. Coon, the 
superintendent of the Wilson, N. C., 
schools, who has before this defended 
the colored schools: 


“I beg to commend to your consid- 
eration,” writes “White Taxpayer,” “an 
enclosed clipping from the inaugural ad- 
dress of Governor Blease of South Car- 
olina as being the wisest stand taken by 
any public man within recent years, with 
reference to ‘Negro education.’ There 
are thousands and tens of thousands 
of white men all over the South to-day, 
holding the same opinion, but without 
the courage to come out and say so 
publicly. It is absolutely inconceivable 
to me how any Southern white man can 
fail to see and know that this thing of 
educating the Negro is the most egre- 
gious mistake ever made. 

“All this talk about ‘elevating’ the race 
is the veriest rot. God save us from the 
‘elevated’ Negro! There is no place for 
him. 

“True, we held them in bondage, but 
suppose we had not: To-day they would 
be in Africa eating each other raw. As- 
sociating with, and being trained by, the 
very flower of civilization—the ante- 
bellum white people of the South—was 
the very greatest blessing that could 
have been bestowed upon them by an 
all-wise Creator. 

“Were I a Rockefeller, I would cause 
to be reared in every Southern State a 
monument to the memory of the old- 
time Negroes, but not a cent for edu- 
cating the lazy, impudent young Negroes 
of to-day. They are a curse to the 
South and their tribe is daily increasing, 
and sending them to school is largely 
the cause of it. 

“Let us run the white schools with 
taxes from the white taxpayers, and the 
Negro schools with the Negro taxpayers’ 
money.” 

Mr. Coon replies: 

“In the Observer of February 24 ‘A 
White Taxpayer,’ of Taylorsville writes 
against Negro education, saying that 
education makes Negroes worthless and 
that white taxes ought to go to white 
schools and Negro taxes to Negron 
schools. 

“This citizen of Alexander county is 
respectfully referred to the last report 
of the State Superintendent, wich 


shows the following facts for his 
county, relative to Negro education: 
Number of Negro children of 


EMM MAE nae ns sax ein ewe 287 
Enrolled in Negro schools...... 224 
Number of Negro teachers..... 8 
Number of school houses (two 

BND esau suka enews aa eis bb 53 5 
Total value Negro school prop- 

EE meee pe wiateleirmiiewns skies ke $309.00 
Average length of school term 

PEO! cone ccn eh agnak pea kas% 65 
Total amount paid each teacher 

RINE cin canin an and'dteigss snes s $51.54 
Total annual amount paid for 

teaching Negroes ............ $412.32 


“Our educational statistics also say 
that there is only one first grade teacher 
among the eight Negro teachers of 
Alexander, while six are second grade 
and one third grade. 

“T submit the above facts to show 
that it is the lack of Negro education 
that this taxpayer is really complaining 
about. Surely a county that is making 
such a showing cannot seriously claim 
that it is trying, or has tried, the ex- 
periment of Negro education. And, fur- 
thermore, if my county made such a poor 
showing on Negro education as Alex- 
ander, I believe I would think twice 
before I would rush into print to try 
to unsettle something which Jesus Christ 
settled 2,000 years ago and which the 
Supreme Court of North Carolina off- 
cially settled in 1886, the honorable Cole 
L. Blease of South Carolina to the con- 
trary notwithstanding. 

“There are some facts, too, which 
this ‘A White Taxpayer’ ought to know. 
He has evidently been asleep or not 
observant. We have more Negro chil- 
dren here in Wilson than white children. 
Out of a Negro census of 1,213 children 
of school age we have enrolled this year 
638 pupils in our colored school. I do 
not believe this Alexander taxpayer will 
find a single intelligent white man in this 
city who will not tell him that these school 
children are well behaved and that the 
training they are getting in the school 
is beneficial. Furthermore, we have kept 
a record of the graduates of our colored 
school for the past five years, and we 
can testify that all of these graduates 
are now engaged in useful work, while 
none of them has gone wrong in any 
way. 

“The great problem we have here in 
Wilson is to reach that part of the col- 
ored children whose parents are wholly 
indifferent to the moral and educational 


a i i oe 


Ww e™ 


“ll 


Ss One 


OPINION 13 


welfare of their children. It is from 
such children that our criminals are 
made, not from those who attend our 
schools in any degree of regularity. 
Everyone here knows that I am only 
stating the truth when I say this. We 
have hundreds of Negro parents in this 
city who are pathetically anxious that 
their children shall be honest, upright, 
law abiding and industrious. These par- 
ents are not ex-slaves, either, but they 
are ‘Negroes born since the days of 
slavery. 

“The man who delivers all the express 
packages in Wilson and collects and ac- 
counts for all not prepaid is a Negro man. 
He has held his present position for 
twelve years. He could not hold it a 
day, if he did not have a common school 
education. I could fill several columns 
of this paper with examples of Negroes 
I know who are doing well their part 
of the world’s work, who were born 
since the days of slavery, who are law- 
abiding, who are educating their children 
to be useful citizens, and who are con- 
tented and happy. These men give the 
lie to the loose talk of such men as 
Blease and his Alexander county friend. 
But as long as we have such men who 
will insist upon turning a whole race 
of people who are the friends of the 
white race, into mental slavery, it is 
somebody’s public duty to place such 
facts as I have given above before the 
world.” 


SECRETARY DICKINSON ON 
LYNCH LAW. 


Secretary Dickinson of the War De- 
partment, in a speech at Atlanta before 
the Southern Commercial Congress, ex- 
pressed the opinion that the commercial 
development of the South can follow 
only on the suppression of mob violence. 
He said that because of frequent law- 
less outbreaks an unjustifiable prejudice 
against the Southern States exists, not 
only in the North, but in foreign coun- 
tries. Such outbreaks, he said, are the 
result of abnormal conditions produced 
by the Civil War. Broadly viewed, how- 
ever, he added, the South would be found 
to be a land of law and order, and he 
emphatically urged the immediate neces- 
sity of establishing a reverence for and 
an impartial enforcement of the law as 
a primary step to the future greatness 
of the South. 

As an ultimate solution of the race 
problem in the South, Mr. Dickinson 
suggested the possibility of the volun- 
tary removal of the mass of young 
Negroes to a country of their own, fos- 
tered and guarded by the United States. 

“When they grow in wealth and edu- 
cation,” said Mr. Dickinson, “and still 
find themselves confined in their aspira- 
tions by insurmountable barriers which 
bar their social and political progress 
and deny them the opportunities of citi- 


zenship open to all others, an ambition 
to free themselves from such conditions 
may, if sustained by a liberal govern- 
mental policy, lead to such a movement.” 
Speaking of mob violence, he said: 

“There never was a time in any South- 
ern State in the last thirty years that 
a Negro could not be speedily and ade- 
quately punished for any offense, for 
the white people controlled absolutely 
the administration of the law. It does 
not help us to point out race prejudice 
and acts of violence to Negroes in the 
North. No respectable public sentiment 
justifies such violence there.” 


CIVIC PRIDE. 


A rather belated but still very grati- 
fying discovery seems to have been made 
in several Southern cities. They have 
found a considerable number of colored 
folk possessed of race and civic pride 
and not only anxious but able to co- 
operate with white citizens for civic 
betterment. Under the heading, “A New 
Light on the Southern White Man’s 
Burden,” the Atlanta Constitution tells 
with enthusiasm the story of a cam- 
paign to raise a $600,000 fund among 
Negroes and whites, for the Young 
Men’s Christian Association. 

“The most significant disclosure of 
an analysis of the campaign,” says the 
Constitution, “is the light it throws upon 
the capacity of the Negro to respond to 
influences assuring his good citizenship 
rather than his instincts toward criminal- 
ity. From the total of $600,000, $100,000 
was to be set aside for the improvement 
of the branch devoted to the Negroes, 
and a Chicago philanthropist, Mr. Ben 
Rosenwald, contributed $25,000 condi- 
tioned on the remaining $75,000 being 
subscribed. 

“Of this $100,000, the Negroes were 
assigned to raise $40,000 in ten days. 
They did that, and more! At the expira- 
tion of the ten-day period they had 
raised $57,000, in addition to the equity 
in their present building. 

“That did not satisfy them. They 
hammered, and fine toothcombed, and 
persisted until finis was written to the 
campaign, they had pledged the sum of 
$67,000, or— 

“Twenty-seven thousand dollars in ex- 
cess of the amount required of them! 
And they are still subscribing! 

“The total number of Negroes sub- 
scribing is placed at 5,500. The details of 
their campaign are nothing short of 
marvelous. The ratio between the white 
and Negro subscribers, in proportion to 
population, is about three to one, with 
the predominance in favor of the Ne- 
groes. Their organization was perfect. 
Their contributions ranged from 25 
cents to $1,000. 

“The result stands for itself. Astute 
students of the Negro have emphasized 
his lack of race consciousness and cohe- 








14 THE CRISIS 


sion as the main premises for misgiving. 
Both indictments were sweepingly dis- 
missed by the Atlanta campaign. 


“The explanation is simple—but por- 
tentous. The Negro was assigned a 
task that assumed citizenship, manhood 
and the possession of possibilities inher- 
ing in both. Too often they that deal 
with the Negro problem approach the 
Negro as foreordained to lack of initia- 
tive, viciousness, the impulse of the 
criminal. The Atlanta experiment proves 
which is the more effectual attitude. 

“Should it not hold a lesson for the 
Southern people?” 


The Charlotte (N. C.) Observer re- 
lates, although not apropos of the At- 
lanta experience, the ready response of the 
colored people in that city: “The mass 
meeting at which the colored people con- 
sidered ways and means for doing their 
part in the progress of Charlotte is not 
surprising, but is highly gratifying all 
the same.” 


The Chattanooga Times takes the Ob- 
server's remarks as “a text for a civic 
appeal to the better elements of the 
colored population in Chattanooga. Not 
only in Charlotte, but in other Southern 
cities intelligent and well-to-do Negroes 
are organizing to help their white 
neighbors in the work of city promo- 
tion—materially, educationally and mor- 
ally. As a usual thing in the past the 
Negro population has been accounted 
a minus quantity in the equation of city 
growth and progress. These Charlotte 
Negroes have had their self-respect 
aroused and they are going to try to 
get away from that stigma; they are 
going to try to convert at least a part 
of their people into a ‘plus’ sign, and 
they can succeed if they will try. 

“There are many patriotic Negroes of 
the kind needed to be found in this 
city. The Negro who fights gang rule 
helps himself and his people and at the 
same time shows himself a progressive 
citizen.” 


RACE PREJUDICE. 

Rabbi Max Heller, of New Orleans, 
speaking in a colored church in that 
city, defined race prejudice in a striking 
way. 

“Let me attempt, for our guidance,” 
he said, “a sound and fair definition of 
prejudice. I do not call a mere reckless 
generalization a prejudice. If, from my 
dealings with the members of this race, 
that nation, that faith, I arrive whether 
legitimately or illegitimately, rashly or 
deliberately, at certain conclusions re- 
garding the national, racial, religious 
psychology, the forming of such a gen- 
eralization is not yet prejudice. I have 
the right to make my observations re- 
garding a class of people, just as I 


have a right to generalize about any 
genus or species of plant or animal. It 
is when I use my generalization—which 
may be worthless or valuable—so as to 
aeny my fellowman the right to be 
judged on his own merits; it is when I 
employ my generalization not as a mere 
caution against probable foibles, but as 
a judgment condemning an untried in- 
dividual, it is, then, that I am guilty of 
the intellectual laziness, the immature 
rashness, the cruel injustice of preju- 
dice. 

“T am not speaking, of course, of 
such things as physical prejudice or of 
that stupid narrowness which bases 
prejudice upon just one childish instinct, 
upon the savage notion that everything 
and everybody must be bad who is not 
as Iam. In the lower order of human- 
ity, among the dregs of population, such 
prejudice is part and parcel of a general 
state of savagery. I am speaking of the 
prejudice. of the civilized man who 
aspires to fair dealing; the core of that 
prejudice is the immoral habit of judg- 
ing the individual by the mass, of ob- 
sessing one’s mind against types and 
races as if they were completely uni- 
form, of handling a venturesome and 
unsafe generalization as if it were an 
iron frame into which must fit every 
individual whose outward marks place 
him in that class. 








“As far as I can observe, this habit 
ot indiscriminate prejudgment seems 
everywhere to be on the _ increase, 
whether as an incident of the increasing 
intercourse between races, nations and 
faiths, whether as a symptom of that 
growing intellectual indolence which 
school and stage, newspaper, magazine 
and novel tend to encourage, whether 
as the natural accompaniment of accen 
tuated individualism in national and re- 
ligious unfoldments; possibly, too, in 
the train of all the greed and sensuous 
passion that are engendered by material- 
istic competition. 

“T may be called a pessimist for mak- 
ing the observation; but I am merely 
pointing out the direction of a current 
that plays against the shores of ever- 
lasting human nature; as to the final 
goal of brotherhood I harbor no mis- 
givings. But the current is on: it is 
changing the climate for us, if only for 
a paltry century or two out of the in- 
finitude of time; the question for us, in 
our span of life, is how shall we stand 
unswayed in the storm; how shall we 
hold our ground like men against what- 
ever threatens to unsettle our self-re- 
spect or to drag us down altogether?” 


The Republican Club of New York 
discussed race prejudice at a luncheon at 
which representatives of several races 
spoke. Mr. Bryce, the British Ambas- 
sador. could not be present, but sent a 
letter in which he said: 





SS ee ae aS ee ee 


ow = 6 


2 =m 


ig 
id 
at 


1e 


ces 
as- 





OPINION 15 


“Personally I venture to believe that 
much of the antagonism we see now 
need not be permanent, but may be re- 
moved by the further development of 
the material and religious forces which 
in the past have worked for the sense 
of human brotherhood. We must not 
assume that the conditions of our own 
time, even if they are of long standing, 
need last forever. When we consider 
what triumphs religion and philosophy 
and a higher sense of moral duty have 
effected in the past in the way of rais- 
ing and purifying public sentiment, we 
have no reason to despair either as 
regards the problems which the relations 
of the white man and the Negro present 
in North America or those which have 
been raised by the migration of some 
of the Far Eastern races into countries 
peopled by the whites. 


“That the solution of those problems 
may take many years is not a reason 
for apathy, much less despair, but rather 
a reason for setting to work at once to 
point out how much better it is for 
each and every nation, and how much 
more conducive to the peace and wel- 
fare of the world, that the narrowness 
and bitterness which lead men of races 
that deem themselves superior to despise 
and often to ill-treat men of other races 
should be expunged and the feeling of 
our common humanity strengthened.” 


SOCIALISM AGAIN. 

The New York Call (Socialist) keeps 
hammering manfuly against color preju- 
dice. Of three or four admirable edi- 
torials this month we quote from one 
entitled “Our Shame.” 


“The strike of the firemen on the 
Queen and Crescent Railroad has, ac- 
cording to all reports, been caused by 
the promotion of Negro firemen. 

“It is strikes like this one that reveal 
the woeful backwardness of the Ameri- 
can labor movement. Such a strike 
would have been impossible if the rail- 
way unions were anxious to include all 
the railway workers in their ranks, with- 
out distinction of branch of service or 
color, for then the railway managements 
would have found it useless to discrimi- 
nate in favor of one race or one branch 
of service as against the others. It is 
just such strikes as this one that create 
a feeling of compassion for the colored 
man, who suffers under a double kind of 
slavery—wage slavery and color slavery. 

“And so long as this will continue, so 
long as any union discriminates against 
Negro workers, it will be impossible to 
rouse against Negro strikebreakers the 
same feeling of abhorrence as against 
crdinary or white strikebreakers. For 
these strikebreakers the unions them- 
selves are responsible, though not neces- 
sarily the individual union in the particu- 
lar trade. All unions must be opened 





wide to the Negroes on the same condi- 
tions as to the white workers if the 
Negroes are to cease furnishing strike- 
breakers to the employers.” 


FOUR GROUNDS FOR COMPLAINT 


Mr. James H. Dillard, formerly of 
Tulane University, Louisiana, speaking in 
New York on “The Growing South,” 
mentioned four grounds on which he 
thought the colored people might make 
“just complaint.” 

“They have a right to complain of 
their treatment in the lower courts, 
which are the main courts for most of 
their people. It is a shame that less 
care is taken, less money pczid, less 
thought given to insure justice in these 
lower courts than in the higher courts. 

“Another just ground of complaint is 
the treatment which they too often re- 
ceive from the employees of public 
service corporations, especially from the 
employees of common carriers, such as 
ticket sellers and car conductors. I 
mean the humiliating treatment in the 
way of gruff words and manner. 

“Still another cause of complaint is 
that in many parts in the South, espe- 
cially in the rural districts, the colored 
people are not provided with public 
schools which are open long enough or 
have sufficiently competent teachers. 

“The fourth complaint is that we are 
too apt to generalize the Negroes as a 
mass and judge the whole by the worst 
types. On the contrary, the colored 
people of the South should be encour- 
aged to have self-respect and race re- 
spect.” 


THE RACES CONGRESS. 

The Pittsburg, Pa., Gazette-Times 
writes of the Universal Races Congress 
which will be held this summer: 

“The first ‘Universal Races Congress’ 
in the history of the world is to meet 
in London next July. Natives of Eu- 
rope, Asia, Africa and the Americas will 
gather to discuss, in the words of the 
official invitation, ‘how prejudices may 
be removed and friendlier relations es- 
tablished between the Western nations 
and the other peoples of the earth.’ The 
United States will be represented, among 
others, by Charles A. Eastman and W. 
EK. DuBois, who will read papers on 
‘The American Indian’ and ‘The Negro 
in America.’ Joseph H. Choate and Gen. 
Horace Porter are included in the list 
of vice-presidents of the congress. 

“Gatherings such as this play no small 
part in promoting the cause of interna- 
tional peace. Indeed, their influence, 
though avowedly indirect, is often more 
potent than that of the innumerable 
peace congresses which devote their en- 
tire time to deploring the horrors of 
war without suggesting how misunder- 
standings and causes of irritation are 





16 THE CRISIS 


to be removed or prevented. The most 
sensible workers for universal peace 
agree that the numerous international 
organizations not affiliated with the 
cause, but formed for the advancement 
of science or with other laudable pur- 
poses in view, are helping greatly to 
bring about that day when wars shall 
cease, simply because they enable the 
intelligent persons of differenet nations 
to become better acquainted. 


“At Brussels is the Central Office of 
International Institutions, which issues 
an annual giving information regarding 
the 200 or more unions, bureaus and con- 
gresses that are doing their work across 
national boundaries. While from 1840 
to 1860 there were only 28 interna- 
tional congresses of various kinds, since 
the latter year there have been about 
2,000, and they now average 150 a year. 

“Prof. Paul S. Reinsch, of the Univer- 
sity of Wisconsin, recently _ said: 
‘Through the effective organization of 
all these international interests there 
will be created a large number of bonds 
between the nations which will make 
war more and more difficult. To tear 
up all these ties, to interrupt all these 
normal activities, will seem, as they go 
on increasing in numbers and power, an 
unnatural and intolerable proceeding.’ 
If the ‘Universal Races Congress’ lives 
up to its name, and if it meets at regular 
intervals in different countries of the 
world, it should prove no unimportant 
factor in hastening the era of universal 
good feeling that will make war more 
dificult, if not impossible.” 


BALANCING APPOINTMENTS. 


The Vicksburg, Miss., Herald takes a 
philosophical view of the appointment 
of colored men to office. Two such ap- 
pointments were made one day, but the 
Herald noted the next day a Washing- 
ton dispatch to the Memphis News-Scim- 
itar to this effect: 

“Senator Percy discussed this morning 
with President Taft some matters of lo- 
cal interest to Mississippi. He had the 
satisfaction of learning that several Ne- 
gro postmasters in the State will be 
removed and white men appointed.” 

The Herald continues: “When Presi- 
dent Taft announced, in substance, that 
there would be no more appointments, 
or reappointments, of Negroes in South- 
ern Offices, the Herald remarked that 
this was as much as the South could ask, 
in reason. Of course, it would be best 
to have it a ‘white man’s government’ 
in all its departments and degrees. This 
is, however, largely a theory outside of 
the South. But departure from the the- 
ory in the North, or even at Washington, 
is of relatively minor consequence.” 


@ The Des Moines, Ia., Register-Leader 
quotes at length a “Southern Senator” 
on the social complications that must 
arise from the appointment of colored 
men to high office in Washington. There 
is a bewildering recital of matters of 
precedence and calling cards, whereupon 
the Register-Leader observes it is easy 
to see that the significance of this is 
not as it affects the new Attorney-Gen- 
eral. “That a Senator of the United 
States should accept social standing as a 
test of fitness for the public service is 
the really important thing 

“Not many will interest themselves in 
this particular case. But we may rest 
assured that the proscription once recog 
nized will not be limited to members of 
another race. In the end it will be a 
sufficient objection to the purest bred 
Caucasian that he does not fit into the 
social situation.” 


@ “The ‘Jim Crow’ bill introduced in 
the House at Lincoln by a Gage County 
Democrat should be promptly defeated,” 
says the Omaha Bee. “The number of 
Negroes in Nebraska is small in propor 
tion to population. Its colored people 
are industrious and law abiding, as a 
rule, many of them being property own 
ers and taxpayers, and there is no de 
mand, irrespective of race or color. for 
imposing such discrimination upon 
them.” 


@ “Major” Vardman is campaigning for 
the United States Senatorship in Missis 
sippi. His platform includes the observ 
ance of the Golden Rule and the subjuga 
tion of the Negro. “If there were more 
of the Golden Rule and less of the rule 
of gold,” he said, “we should not need 
such a big navy.” Blending happily with 
this aphorism there occurs in the same 
speech: “The most illiterate white man 
is better equipped to understand the 
scheme of this government and to vote 
intelligently to perpetuate it than any 
Negro.” 


@ The colored citizens of Atlanta have 
had the pleasure last month of addresses 
from President Taft and Colonel Roose- 
velt. The President said if Negroes 
made themselves useful they would be 
valued, but they must not hang around 
saloons wasting time. His speech was 
marked by one enlivening incident. 

“The secret of the solution of the prob- 
lem of the South,” he said, “is education. 
primary and industrial.” 

Voice from the Floor: 
it; 

Colonel Roosevelt in his 
warned the colored people not to be 
come conceited. “It would be the very 
worst thing that could happen to you,” 
he said! 


“We don't get 


address 


ler 
_ 
ist 
ed 


of 
on 


1s 


ed 


in 
ity 
rh 


f 
ot 


THE N. A. A. C, P. 


The Third Annual Conference of the 
National Association for the Advance- 
ment of Colored People will take place 
in Park Street Church, Boston, on Thurs- 
day and Friday, March 30 and 31, 1911. 
The following programme will be car- 
ried out: 

THURSDAY, MARCH 30. 
Afternoon Session: 
2:30 o’clock. 

Violations of Property Rights. 
Chairman: Mr. Moorfield Storey. 
Speakers: Mr. Oswald Garrison Vil- 

lard, Dr W. E. B. DuBois, Rabbi 

Charles Fleischer, Mr. R. R. Wright, 
Jr., and Miss Adelene Moffat. 
Evening Session: 
8 o'clock. 
Violations of Labor Rights and 
Peonage. 

Federal Aid to Education. 
Chairman: Hon. Albert E. Pillsbury. 
Speakers: Mr. John E. Milholland, Rev. 

John Haynes Holmes, Mr. L. M. 

Hershaw, Mrs. Mary Church Terrell, 

and Mrs. Florence Kelley. 

FRIDAY, MARCH 31. 
Morning Session: 
10 o'clock. 

Executive Session: 

Business and Credentials. 

Evening Session: 
8 o'clock. 
Segregation and Ultimate Effects of 
Race Discrimination. 

Chairman: Mr. Moorfield Storey. 

Speakers: Hon. Charles J. Bonaparte, 

ex-United States Attorney General; 

Justice Wendell Phillips Stafford, of 

the Supreme Court of the District of 

Columbia: Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, 

of the Free Synagogue, New York. 





The Department of Publicity and Re- 
search makes the following report of 
activities from September 1, 1910, to 
April 1, 1911: 

Lectures have been delivered as fol- 
lows: 

New York and vicinity, eighteen: 

Bethel Church 

St. Mark’s Church (3) 

Republican Club 

Stillman House 

Socialist Local Number Seven 

Lincoln Centre 

Ethical Culture Hall (2) 

Cosmopolitan Club 

Concord Baptist Church 





Clinton Hall 
Bedford Reformatory (2) 
Paterson 
Montclair 
Newark. 
The East, thirteen: 
Southold, L. I. 
Boston: 
Ford Hall 
Twentieth Century Club 
Shaw House 
Cambridge 
Park Street Church. 
Greenacre, Me. 
Sea Isle City, N. J. 
Ocean Grove, N. J. 
Atlantic City, N. J. 
West Chester, Pa. 
House of Refuge, Pa. 
Philadelphia, 
N. A. A. C. P. Meeting 
Settlement Workers. 
The West, twenty: 


Buffalo, N. Y. 
Oberlin, O. (5) 
Toledo, O. 
Cleveland, O. 
Columbus, O., 

Baptist Church 

Ohio State University 
Xenia, O. 

Wilberforce University 
Detroit, Mich., 

¥.. a: ©. A, 

Universalist Church 

Woman’s Club 
Steubenville, O. 

Chicago, 

Ethical Culture Society 
Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Indianapolis, Ind. 

Big Rapids, Mich. 
The South, six: 


Washington, D. C. 

Durham, N. C. (3) 

Atlanta, 

Bethel Church 
Atlanta Baptist College. 

Of these fifty-eight lectures, twenty- 
three were to white audiences, twenty- 
five to colored audiences and ten to 
mixed audiences. The hearers aggre- 


gated 21,000 persons. 





Five magazine articles have been 
placed, six letters to newspapers and 
three articles for press associations. 





The correspondence of the office has 
involved the writing of 2,949 letters. 





THE CRISIS 





APRIL, 1911 19 


Resurrection 


Written for THE Crisis by WILLIAM STANLEY BRAITHWAITE. 


Lo! winter held the earth in its dark strife, 
Scarred Nature’s beauty, hushed its pulse of life; 
Now, through her trembling bosom, mystic breath 
Blows the eternal lilies in the fields of death. 





William Stanley Braithwaite was born in Boston December 6, 1878. 
He left school at the age of twelve and started to learn the compositor’s trade at 
the press of Ginn & Company. On account of ill health, he had to give this 
up, and there followed four or five years of odd jobs, “such as a lad—a col- 
ored lad—rmight find to do,” as Mr. Braithwaite quietly puts it. 

After managing a little bookstore in Newport and working in a club, the 
vision of the poet proved too alluring to be longer resisted. At the age of 
twenty-four he therefore began his literary career. In 1904 came his sad- 
covered little book, “Lyrics of Life and Love,’’ with its first low cry of a 
freed soul: 


I am glad day long for the gift of song, 
For time and change and sorrow; 

For the sunset wings and the world-end things 
Which hang on the edge of to-morrow. 


I am glad for my heart whose gates apart 
Are the entrance-place of wonders, 

Where dreams come in from the rush and din 
Like sheep from the rains and thunders. 


Two years later Mr. Braithwaite began his first great life work-—a 
survey and evaluation of English poetry from 1557 to 1910. Three volumes 
of these splendidly conceived anthologies have appeared—the ‘‘Book of Eliz- 
abethan Verse’ (1906), the ““Book of Georgean Verse’ (1908), and the 
“Book of Restoration Verse’ (1909). The last volume, the ‘Book of 
Victorian Verse,’’ completing the series, will appear this year. 

Besides these volumes Mr. Braithwaite has issued the “‘House of Falling 
Leaves,”’ and will publish soon ““New England Poems.and Lyrics,”’ a river 
anthology and a volume of essays. 

Mr. Braithwaite’s art is characterized by care, restraint and exquisite 
taste. He marks the rise of Negro American letters above the mere bonds of 
race into the universal brotherhood. 








EDITORIAL 


EASTER. 

HE laid lay smiling in spring 
splendor, heavy with verdure, 
gleaming with glad sunshine. 

Athwart it fell the dark shadow of a 
toiling man; he was great of limb and 
black, thick of countenance and hard- 
haired. His face was half-hopeless, 
half-vacant, with only a faint gleam 
of something dead and awakening deep 
in his deep-set eyes. His feet were 
chained, his neck yoked and his body 
scarred. They that had driven him 
and ridden and thrust him threaten- 
ingly through the thick forest were 
now afraid of him. They feared the 
reproach of his dumb, low-burning 
eyes. They feared the half-articulate 
sounds from his moving lips, and saw 
with terror the slow, steady growth of 
his body, that great, black, undying 
body. So they took council together 
to kill him—lying to his ears, crucify- 
ing his soul, until he, bent and bowed 
and heavy with his own weakness, fell 
and lay his mighty length in stupor 
along the earth. And the earth trem- 
bled. 

Sweating and deep of breath the 
pale-faced murderers worked and 
delved, digging a cavernous grave and 
walling it with Oppression. Then 
shame-faced, yet grim, they turned 
northward. At daybreak they stood 
upon the hills of God with faces white 
and good, crying: “Come, O brothers, 
Northern brothers, the Thing that hin- 
dered our love is dead, dead, long 
dead.” The brothers of the North 
came trooping, oily tongued, unctious 
and rich. Yet they of the North and 
South looked not each other in the 
eye, but slunk along false-smiling. 

One timid one said: 

“O Brother South—I hear chains.” 

But the South answered: 

“Nay, that is the chiming of Negro 
school bells.” 

Yet another, quibbling, found his 
mouth : 


“Did the Thing—die—happy ” 

The South choked and muttered : 

“Happy—so happy—and praising 
his—Master, and his Best Friends.” 

“But, Brother, your hands are 
bloody,” quavered a third. 

“The blood of the offering burned 
at the stake for the culture and su- 
premacy of the White Race.” 

Then hastily the South said in cho- 
rus as if to forestall reply: 

“See where we have laid Him,” and 
they pointed to that grave, walled with 
Oppression. 

But suddenly the World was wings 
and the voice of the Angel of the 
Resurrection beat like a mighty wind 
athwart their ears, crying: 

“He is not here—He is risen.” 

Risen above half his ignorance; risen 
to more than six hundred millions of 
property ; risen to a new literature and 
the faint glimmering of a new Art; 
risen to a dawning determination to 
be free; risen to a newer and greater 
ideal of Humanity than the world has 
known. Risen! 


WRITERS. 


7S death of Frances Watkins 
Harper calls our attention to 

the literature of American Ne- 
groes. Mrs. Harper was born in Bal- 
timore in 1825. Her active life, 
beginning with her first published book 
of poems, covered over sixty years of 
stirring history, from the Compromise 
of 1850 down to Mr. Taft's inaugural 
address. She was associated with all 
the great leaders of the abolition cause 
and has lectured to hundreds of audi- 
ences throughout the land. 

It is, however, for her attempts to 
forward literature among colored peo- 
ple that Frances Harper deserves 
most to be remembered. She was not 
a great singer, but she had some sense 
of song; she was not a great writer, 
but she wrote much worth reading. 
She was, above all, sincere. She took 


EDITORIAL 21 


her writing soberly and earnestly ; she 
gave her life-to it, and it gave her 
fair support. She was a worthy mem- 
ber of that dynasty, beginning with 
dark Phyllis in 1773 and coming on 
down past David Walker, Wells 
Brown, Nell, Whitman and Williams, 
down to Dunbar, Chesnuit and Braith- 
waite of our day. 

To the young colored American 
Frances Harper leaves a lesson. Here 
is a nation whose soul is still dumb, 
yet big with feeling, song and story. 
What are we doing to develop writers 
to express this wealth of emotion 
fitly? Very littl. We have among 
ten millions to-day one poet, one novel- 
ist and two or three recognized writers 
of articles and essays. That is all. 

Here is a tremendous field for im- 
provement, and if in the next six 
months THE Crisis receives the same 
remarkable encouragement as in the 
past we hope to have ready for the 
beginning of our second year’s work 
a matured plan for encouraging young 
writers to follow the hallowed foot- 
steps of Frances Watkins Harper. 


A FRIEND. 


T HAS become the fashion to hail 
every Southern white man as a 
prodigy of liberality if he shows 

the slightest signs of bursting his shell 
of provincial prejudice. The result is 
that the colored man has so many 
Southern “friends” to-day that he 
often prays devoutly for deliverance. 

Now and then, however, he finds 
hidden behind the well-advertised and 
widely paid and petted prophets of 
the “new dispensation” a genuine man 
who has gone his way and done his 
work and stood before his God ac- 
cording to the Golden Rule. 

Such a man is George Williams 
Walker, of Augusta. He is almost 
unknown. He has not been exploited 
in Northern newspapers, nor exhibited 
on Pullman trains trailing through the 
South, but for twenty-seven years he 
has done his day’s work like a man. 
When in his youth they would send 
him to the black man in Africa, he 
said quietly, “I will work with the 
black man here!” His family was 
horrified, his sweetheart jilted him and 





his friends dropped him. Yet he 
founded a Negro school. and taught it. 
He did not teach at long distance, 
fearing the souls he loved lest their 
dark bodies soil him by “social in- 
equality’—he became the friend of 
hundreds and thousands of Negroes. 
The shadow of death is to-day 
creeping toward this brave, good man. 
but he cannot die. He is immortal, 
and the black folk of Augusta recently 
arose and came to him silently with 
gifts and low words, and he said in 
reply: “But yesterday with trembling 
hands I displayed to my expectant eyes 
the handsome gift. I assure you, dear 
friends, I had no need of such a token 
to know the high esteem of my con- 
stituency. I saw it in their actions— 
felt it in their words.” This he wrote 
to a black woman, and he called her 
“Miss Jackson.” Wherefore the chiv- 
alrous white South casts him out. 


THE TRUTH. 

HERE is to-day a_ tendency 
among colored people and 
among their earnest friends to 

tell the half-truth concerning the situ- 
ation of the colored people and to con 
demn those who seek to tell the whole 
truth. Such people rightly herald the 
recent peonage decision of the Su- 
preme Court, they commend the sav- 
ing of Pink Franklin’s life, they point 
to many other instances of help and 
good will on the part of Southern 
whites. 

These things are true and deserve 
wide currency; to conceal or neglect 
them would be wrong. But they are 
not the whole truth, and when by si- 
lence or intimation the world is given 
to believe by such well-meaning ag 
sons that they are the whole truth, 
great and dangerous injustice is ae 
trated. With the peonage decision we 
must not forget the shame of the 
Berea decision ; with the saving of one 
life we cannot forget the widespread 
and crying injustice of Southern 
courts and methods of punishment; 
with the fact of the rise here and there 
of Southern white friends of the black 
men, it is a dangerous falsehood to 
overlook the tireless and daily assaults 











22 


of enemies of humanity like Judge 
Harris Dickson. 

3ut where is the harm? many think. 
If we tell the good things, will not 
the good things multiply and the hate- 
ful things die? No. It is a dangerous 
thing to dally with the truth. Some of 
the greatest catastrophes in history 
have come because the mass of men 
have been deceived and misled as to 
the truth of conditions by timid, well- 
meaning persons, who, knowing the 
awful facts, suppressed them system- 
atically and spread the sweet and 
gentle lie. 

There are friends of black folk in 
this land. There is continual advance 
in human sympathy. There is an 
awakening in the white South on the 
race problem. All that is true. It is 
also true that the Negro American to- 
day faces the crisis of his career; race 
prejudice is rampant and is success- 
fully overcoming humanitarianism in 
many lines, and the determination of 
the dominant South to beat the black 
man to his knees, to make him a docile 
ignorant beast of burden, was never 
stronger than to-day. This is the 
truth. Let us tell the truth, unpleasant 
though it be, and through the truth 
seek freedom. There is no other way. 


SMITH JONES. 
CURIOUS thing happened at 
A Harvard last fall. A_ boy 


walked from Mississippi and 
sought to enter the college because he 
wanted to learn to write. 

“Certainly. Why not?’ asks the 
reader. 

Well—he was black. 

“Oh,” says the reader, as the dean 
of the college said, “why didn’t he go 
to an industrial school?” 

“Because,” said Smith Jones, “I 
want to study literature and become a 
poet.” 

‘Why not become a carpenter?” 

“Because I don’t want to.” 

“Ts not a trade honorable?” 

“Yes; but the trade I want is writ- 
ing in numbers.” 

“But can you write?” 

Now, the strange thing is 
Smith Jones has the gift of song. 
“My song floats softly up to thee,” 


that 


THE CRISIS 





he sings to Ethiopia in verses that halt 
yet have the feel of poetry—not that 
song is to be compared with potatoes 
—for potatoes are the end of song (or 
is song the end of potatoes?). At any 
rate, why shouldn’t such a boy be her- 
alded, pushed onward and encour- 
aged? He aspires. Why does not 
America cry Hurrah! The reason 
lies deep, but the reason is there, and 
it exercises itself again and again. 
“There is one place in this land for 
black men. We want no exceptions. 
Exceptions make the Negro problem.” 
Curious. How like to well-known 
echoes of the past. How like, too, 
sounds Simith Jones’ life; he was born 
in a Mississippi cotton field; he sup- 
ported his mother, sent his sister to 
school. Then at last came his chance. 
He got to Louisville and worked at 
service. Then he printed his Ode to 
Ethiopia and came to Indianapolis. 
There the Star published his Ode to 
the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Monument 
which James Whitcomb Riley and 
other writers praised. Yet when they 
saw the black face of the poet they 
sighed. It was no use to try there, so 
the black boy started for Harvard with 
thirty-four cents in his pocket and a 
bundle of Odes to Ethiopia! He rode 
on engines, skulked, starved and 
walked, and finally was arrested in 
Worcester, Mass., a dirty, black, red- 
eyed vagabond, and sent to the work- 
house. “I am a poet,” he protested, 
“not a tramp;” but the guard dropped 
his letter to the editors in the waste 
paper basket and grinned. Finally, 
on a dark night he came to Harvard 
Square. He saw its dim trees and 
scattered buildings and, venturing in 
the yard, was promptly arrested again 
and clapped into jail. Oh! our brave 
and efficient police! 

This time his judge was a man. 
While his jailers were proving beyond 
peradventure that any man whose 
whole luggage consisted of a bag of 
poems was either a vagabond or a fool, 
the judge was reading his poems. So 
he went free, “on probation.” At last 
a man came forward and put Jones 
into the Boston Latin School, where 
he is now preparing for Harvard. 




















Leaving It to the South 


By 


CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL 


IX representative Southern men sat 
talking one day in a lawyer’s office 
in Atlanta. They were talking 
about the race problem. With no 

intention of jocularity I may say that to 
one that knows the South as it is to 
mention their subject is quite super- 
fluous. It is enough to say that they 
were Southerners, and they were talk- 
ing. That would usually mean that they 
were talking about the one great over- 
shadowing issue. 

I listened, hoping for enlightenment. 
These were university men; all but one 
(though Southern born) were from great 
Northern universities, Harvard, Yale, 
Princeton; all were lawyers and of stand- 
ing in their profession. Here, I said, 
I shall find the best Southern thought 
on this tangled monster. 

Each had a solution to offer or to 
favor. One advocated deportation. The 
government, he_ said, should charter 
enough steamships to take all the 
Negroes from America, land them in 
Africa and leave them there. 

To this all the others had strong objec- 
tions. They pointed out that the expense 
would be enormous and that to secure 
the necessary appropriation would be al- 
most impossible. They seemed also to 
think that this suggestion was weak and 
womanish and I gathered that its advo- 
cate was regarded as a rather foolish 
person. It happened that he was the 
Southern university man, but doubtless 
that was a mere coincidence. 

The next man thought that the prob- 
lem was working itself out in a satis- 
factory way without further legislation. 
He took from his pocket a paper of sta- 
tistics showing comparatively by years 
the increase of tuberculosis and pu'mon- 
ary complaints among the Negroes, and 
read these to a deeply interested audi- 
ence. He had added many calculations 
of his own as to the probable progress 
of these diseases and seemed to prove 
that at the existing rates of increase the 
Negroes would in so many years be re- 
duced to inconsiderable numbers and in 
so many more would be extinct. 

It was also suggested that the in- 
creased use of cocaine among the 
Negroes would greatly hasten this result 
and there was considerable information 
adduced on this point. It seemed that 





the cocaine habit was spreading rapidly. 
There was a suggested question whether 
the State had done well to abolish liquor 
selling, but the general opinion was that 
the advantages outweighed any possible 
disadvantages. Someone observed that 
there was a marked decline in the aver- 
age physical condition of the Negroes, 
and this was taken as indicating that in 
all probability tuberculosis or some other 
form of disease would solve the prob- 
lem. 

I did not hear any of the gentlemen at 
any time say anything to indicate a be 
lief that the South or the country owed 
any duty to the Negroes except to get 
rid of them. I have never heard any 
Southerner of this order make any such 
admission nor concede that the Negroes 
had any right to education or citizenship 
or a fair chance in life. A suggestion 
to that effect has usually been regarded 
as absurd, lunatic or incomprehensible. 
The Negro, in my observation, is regard 
ed basically as a wilful and hateful in 
truder whose presence is by all men 
rightfully resented. 

Now the men that I listened to in the 
lawyer's office were without exception 
good men. They were able, intelligent 
and honest; on any other subject in the 
world they were reasonable and just; 
toward all other persons but Negro per- 
sons they were kindly, generous and 
charitable. I think all were professing 
Christians, and I know all were of irre- 
proachable characters. To relieve the 
unfortunate of their own color they 
would at all times do most generous 
things, and at any news of any great 
disaster among their own people they 
were moved with genuine pity. Yet 
they would learn with satisfaction of 
the progress of disease among colored 
persons and talk coldbloodedly of the 
relative merits of cocaine and consump- 
tion in reducing the Negro population. 

A short time before, seated in the buf- 
fet car of a Southern Pacific express 
from New Orleans, I had heard men of 
a coarser type talking about the Galves- 
ton flood. One of them, a Galveston 
man, said that the militia shot a large 
number of Negroes for alleged looting, 
but that not five per cent. of the men 
shot were looters or had any idea of 
theft. He said: 








24 


“It was too good a chance to kill nig- 
gers and the boys couldn’t let it go by.” 

I thought this was some hideous form 
of jesting and expected to see the com- 
pany so accept it. But his hearers only 
nodded their heads with an apparent 
sense of understanding, and I saw that 
what was alleged to have happened at 
Galveston, whether true or not, repre- 
sented a feeling widespread and genuine 
among the whites and that what this 
signified was the explanation of many 
other bloody records besides those of 
Galveston. 

Nothing could be farther from my 
thought than to intimate that these two 
incidents, taken from a full sheaf of ob- 
servations and travels through the 
South, reveal the ideas of all Southern- 
ers. I do not know that they repre- 
sent the ideas of a majority of South- 
erners. I do know that many men of 
the South would instantly repudiate and 
resent them as barbarous and cruel. But 
I also know that whatever might be the 
numerical division on this question the 
feeling of intense, blind, passionate 
hatred that prompted these expressions 
and made them natural and unpremed- 
itated is the identical feeling that seems 
more and more to direct the policy of 
the Southern States. 

It may not be in all respects the feel- 
ing of the majority, but it is certainly 
the feeling of those that make the laws 
and direct the government; and as long 
as that is the fact all those that believe 
in democracy, liberty and equality need 
no other inspiration to protest. Here is 
enough of an issue to engage their ut- 
most sympathies and assistance if they 
are sincere. 

As to the fact that these are the dom- 
inant ideas, I need cite only the savage 
policy of the Southern States toward 
Negro education, the appalling figures 
of Negro illiteracy, the apparent purpose 
to obliterate the Negro schools, the un- 
constitutional laws by which the Negro 
has been deprived of his citizenship, the 
horrors of the “jim-crow” cars on the 
railroads, the steady increase of the ban 
laid upon the Negro workingman, the 
increasing dangers in which the Negro 
at the South leads his life, the increas- 
ing perversion of justice, the increase of 
practica! anarchy at the South so far as 
the relations of whites and Negroes are 
concerned. All of these perilous mani- 
festations and many others are obviously 
the fruits of such feelings as the six 
lawyers indicated when they discussed 
consumption and cocaine as _ relative 
means of grace. 

I put aside, for the time being, the 
graver consideration of the effects of 
these things upon the Negro victims: I 
look now merely at their effect upon 
the dominant whites of the South. I 
protest that for their own sakes the 
white people of the South cannot afford 
to let this downward drift go farther. 


THE CRISIS 


Here is a vast white population whose 
controlling thought at all times is 
hatred. Neither an individual nor a 
population can afford to indulge in that 
most deadly luxury. Men are not so 
constituted. Invariably the hater fares 
worse than the hated. It is an abso- 
lute and certain law of life. 

If this blind and essentially brutal pas- 
sion of hatred that animates the whites 
toward the Negroes of the South and 
daily increases is not to have dreadful 
results it will reverse all the lessons of 
history. If there be any one thing that 
the experience of mankind has so far 
demonstrated it is that nations must pay 
on the nail. If they tolerate ignorance 
they must pay the penaltv in crime; if 
they sow injustice they will reap wrong; 
if they indulge in oppression they will 
insure disaster. These things are in- 
evitable. 

For years I have been accustomed to 
hear Northern men say of the race prob- 
lem that it is a Southern question and 
should be left to the South. “The South- 
ern people understand the Negro: they 
know how to deal with him. They 
should be let alone with their own af- 
fairs.” This, I think, represents the aver- 
age sentiment among the educated 
classes of the North. 

Exactly the same comments were 
once made at the North about slavery. 

With infinitely more reason one might 
have said the same thing of the nobles 
of the old régime in France before 1789. 
They understood the peasants; they best 
knew how to deal with the issue; it was 
their affair. Yet when that pyramid of 
wrong heaped upon wrong finally col- 
lapsed how clear before the world was 
revealed the fact that the nobles had 
not understood the peasants, that they 
had not known best how to deal with 
the issue, that it was not their affair, 
but the affair of civilization. Instead of 
being “the best judges of the situation 
because they were on the ground,” a 
homespun printer far off in Philadelphia 
could have taught wisdom about it they 
never dreamed of. 

It is so now in the South. Prejudice 
and passion are the worst possible in- 
structors. The people of the South, or 
many of them, do not seem able to see 
that eternal verities are not to be al- 
tered to suit inherited prejudices, that 
justice is still justice, men are still men, 
right is still right, and that the moment 
we attempt to make distinctions and dif- 
ferences. about the status of men before 
the law we throw down the whole struc- 
ture of civilization that has been reared 
through so many years at so great a 
cost. 

The nation cannot endure half with 
rights and half with none any more than 
it could endure half slave and half free. 
It is not merely the black disgrace be- 
fore the world of an enlightened country 
that plays these sorry tricks upon a de- 








CoV SS 


ses er Oe ee ae we 


-_ FF =o 


5, Vw Ow Se 


er oS 


Ee = 





fenceless minority of its people. There 
is also the other fact that whenever the 
rights of one man are destroyed the 
rights of all men are impaired. Every 
time justice has been perverted to wreak 
popular prejudice on a colored man the 
whole system of justice has been weak- 
ened for everybody. Organized society 
will not stand such strains. What the 
South is really doing is to create a kind 
of anarchy certain to react upon its 
creators. You cannot deliberately fos- 
ter ignorance and lawlessness without 
paying the price. 

I have heard certain Americans speak 
with a curious bias about all these 
things. They seem to think that by 
some ethical jugglery we have a duty to 
educate the Filipinos but none to edu- 
cate American Negroes: that the Ha- 
waiians have rights but Negroes have 
none: that we should deal justly with 
Porto Ricans but have no obligations 
of justice toward native colored men. 
We forced ourselves upon the Filipinos 
without their consent. We are there- 
fore obliged to give them schools and 
justice. We dragged the Negroes in 


COLOR HYSTERIA 





25 


chains from Africa, therefore we are 
under no obligation to give them any- 
thing except odd kicks and monstrous 
injustice. Would not that be an extra- 
ordinary conception of ethics? 

It is in no spirit of hostility toward 
the people of the South that we protest 
against all this. Those that protest are 
moved as much in the interest of the 
South as of the rest of the country—at 
least as much. Before the war South- 
ern slave owners looked upon the Aboli- 
tionists as their worst enemies. It is 
now perfectly clear that the Abolition- 
ists were the best friends the South ever 
had, for they wished to remove from 
the Southern people an absolutely fatal 
blight. It is the same way to-day. Those 
that insist upon justice and opportunity 
for the Negro are the South’s best 
friends, and it has no enemies worse 
than the complacent, comfortable and 
indifferent Northerner that being con- 
fronted with the growing menace of this 
issue says: “Leave it to the South. The 
South understands the Negro and knows 
what is best to do.” 


RAO OSA DSRNA DORON 


Color Hysteria 
By 
OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD 


HE approval of the Japanese 
treaty without an outburst of race 
hatred on the Pacific Coast is the 


more remarkable because a wave 
of hysteria on the color question seems 
to be sweeping over the entire country. 
Whichever way one turns it is to be 
found, and it has become a pleasing 
sport with some newspapers to “feature” 
every item into which the word Negro 
can be introduced. Particularly is this 
true if, it relates in any way to sane and 
proper intercourse between the races. 
Thus an eminent Columbia University 
professor and his wife, who were plan- 
ning a suffrage meeting in their apart- 
ment, find themselves the victims of 
most trying notoriety because they were 
willing to oblige the woman suffrage 
party by having both white and colored 
listeners to the speeches. Of course, this 
was not the whole crime: after the 
speeches, cups of tea were to be handed 
about and that, of course, was unforgiv- 
able. The landlord, being frightened by 
newspaper publications, threatened an in- 
junction—with the result that the old 
fiction about a man’s home being his cas- 


tle disappears. It is lucky that Dumas and 
other eminent foreigners with colored 
blood in their veins are not alive and 
willing to visit our shores; they, too, 
would be ostracized socially. 

But nothing quite so wicked as has re- 
cently happened in New Orleans has as 
yet disgraced the North. We refer to 
the case of the young woman who was 
recently killed by a street car, and of 
her family. She was described in a 
newspaper account of the accident as a 
“colored” woman. It being a crime in 
Louisiana to say that any white person 
has Negro blood, satisfaction was de- 
manded, when a search of the records 
showed that some generations back 
there was colored blood in the family. 
At once a bill of attainder was passed 
upon the whole connection. The happy 
marriage of a sister is broken up, the 
husband suing for a divorce, since mar- 
riage or concubinage between the races 
is forbidden by law. A brother, a senior 
in a white school, is forced into a black 
one, and the whole family is set apart 
precisely as if afflicted by leprosy and 
with the same amount of hysteria that 








26 


attends the discovery of a leprosy case 
here in New York. 

Next, New Orleans is shocked to know 
that a Confederate veteran participating 
in the unveiling of a statue to Jefferson 
Davis is partly of Negro blood and 
partly white. Thereupon it was given out 
that there would be a careful overhaul- 
ing of the records, with a view to seeing 
just how many persons have a one-six- 
teenth or one-thirty-second portion of 
Negro blood in their veins. But we 
hazard a guess that it will not go very 
far. When a similar one was under- 
taken in a parish near New Orleans 
there were made such discoveries that a 
fortunate fire destroyed the records of 
births, deaths and marriages. One is 
tempted to wish that a healing torch 
might be applied to the .New Orleans 
records. 

Now, the persons cast out in that city 
were precisely the same the day after 
the discovery as before. They were pre- 
sumably gentle and good-mannered, and 
it is known that they were well edu- 
cated in fashionable schools. Doubtless 
they had attained the social position they 
occupied by reason of worth. Now all 
that is changed. What they personally 
are or what they may have accomplished 
goes for naught. Upon them is placed 
a stigma for life. Were segregation in 
force in New Orleans as planned in 
Richmond and Baltimore, they would 
have to move within the Pale. They 
would be told that aspirations and ideals 
must go by the board with all their 
friendships of generations — because 
years back some perhaps charming and 
brilliant Creole was married to one of 
their name. The stigma that part of 
America would place is upon the blood; 
no foul disease with its blood taint is 
comparable. There is in this black blood 
something so terrible that some would 
throw overboard every bit of Christian- 
ity in dealing with it and make a mock- 
ery of glib church-words about the 
brotherhood of man and the teachings 
of the Saviour. 

Does any one wonder if the Negro in 
America is baffled and appalled at the 
situation in which he finds himself? He 
is condemned for low associations. If he 
seeks the elevating influences of better 
ones, they are denied him. He is accused 


of frequenting vile theatres only; every 
decent one is closed to him, and every 
good music hall. 


If a picture-show is 


THE CRISIS 


opened for him, he may be set upon by 
a mob and stoned, as at Fort Worth 
this very day. In many a Southern city, 
the public library closes its doors in his 
face and refuses him the books of his 
own authors—Du Bois, Washington, 
Chesnutt, Dunbar, and the rest. If his 
wife is in need of a Pullman berth to 
reach her destination, it is refused her, 
though she may be physically unable to 
travel in a day coach—a Mississippi court 
has just given a woman héavy damages 
against the Pullman Company, because 
she traveled in a Pullman which also 
harbored several colored bishops! 

Mr. Washington has gone up and 
down the country with the approval of 
white men of all sections, urging the 
Negro to buy farms and houses. But 
if he displeases his white neighbors, in 
many States, a shotgun invalidates his 
title to his land. And if he buys a fine 
house on a good street, in Baltimore, the 
law is hard on his heels. Even in Seat- 
tle they tried—but in vain—to declare 
that a colored man could not buy a house 
where he could bring up his children 
in decent surroundings. 

And so we are trying in this democ- 
racy the impossible experiment of es- 
tablishing a caste, as in India. The rig- 
ors of the Russian Pale are to go with 
it. Men and women are to live apart, 
with the finger of scorn upon them if 
they walk out of their district. They 
are to be denied freedom of property; 
the right to move about freely, the right 
to proper amusement. The right to say 
how and where their children shall be 
educated and by whom, is to be taken 
away, as well as all voice and participa- 
tion in their government. Taxes they 
must pay, but no words of theirs as to 
how the proceeds shall be expended are 
to be tolerated. 

What incentive remains? What col- 
ored man is to be blamed, if, despairing, 
he denounces those leaders who urge 
him to be law-abiding and useful and 
industrious and decides to live for the 
moment only, particularly if he sees 
those who would battle for the simple 
rights that are his as an American cit- 
izen denounced by the prejudiced and 
the blind as desiring the destruction of 
the dominant race? Alas! that everyone 
does not see that the real enemies of 
white supremacy are those who would 
make it synonymous with selfishness, 
cruelty, oppression and wicked injustice. 


WR 








we Ss 


=~ DMe 


VDD etOw VD 


mh he 


an 1 Oar Rn wt er O 


oe 


‘eT oe § Se YW TD oe Te SS 





TALKS ABOUT WOMEN 


NUMBER FIVE 


Fifteen or more years ago, before 
women were so anxious to go into the 
professional, business or commercial 
world, a few old-fashioned ones, eager 
to do something to solve the ever-per- 
plexing domestic problem, started a 
school for “home economy.” The idea 
was to have a place where girls wishing 
to become trained domestics might get 
proper instruction under a good teacher. 
Outside of the originators of the plan 
it seemed impossible to get any one in- 
terested. The home-loving women re- 
fused to co-operate, the girls that were 
expected to flock for instruction did not 
come, and so this very excellent scheme 
was abandoned. 

Later on, however, the public schools 
took up this idea, and at present Do- 
mestic Science is a regular department 
in all the larger schools. It seems a 
much-needed reform, but even done in 
this way it does not reach the masses 
as it should and training schools in con- 
nection with all churches would, it seems 
to me, be a good idea. Here girls hav- 
ing a taste for domestic labor could be 
taught properly. There should be cook- 
ing, plain laundry and waiting depart- 
ments, and those ,having served a cer- 
tain apprenticeship in any one special 
course should be graduated with a 
proper diploma for excellence just the 
same as for the study in any other pro- 
fession. For, after all, the dignity of 
household labor is the only thing by 
which it can be raised to such a stand- 
ard that our better class of American 
girls will consider it. 

Abroad, where girls of intelligence and 
education go in for a domestic life, there 
is no thought of that occupation being 
below the standard of any other work 
or skilled labor. Indeed, in England, 
for instance, these girls consider them- 
selves far superior socially to those 
working in factories or shops. However 
that may be in these countries, there is 
no “Servant Problem,” and may not this 
be true, because, instead of being looked 
upon as a haven for untrained and un- 
skilled labor of every sort and condi- 
tion, it is there looked upon as legiti- 
mate work for which a girl must be 
properly trained. She is then quite as 
much a part of her social world as is 
any other working woman of good 
standing. 

When the advantages of domestic work 
are considered the wonder is that more 
American women do not properly equip 





By Mrs. JOHN E. MILHOLLAND 





themselves for such a life! To be a 
thoroughly competent cook, waitress or 
maid means better pay, more comfort 
and far superior surroundings than to be 
a shopgirl or do work in a factory—the 
one advantage here being, perhaps, a lit- 
tle more liberty regarding time. When 
this sort of labor is put on a purely 
business basis, when mistress and maid 
have a fuller and better understanding 
of each other, when the hours of labor 
can be better arranged, then let us hope 
our young women—colored and white— 
will feel that if they have a taste for 
domestic service they may go into it 
without thinking, as they now do, that 
they are losing their social standing 
among their own set. In any case, this 
is a foolish thought, for all honest labor, 
domestic or otherwise, is honorable and 
should be always so considered. 

One of the most striking illustrations 
of what can be done by a strong desire 
for a home and home ties is shown in 
the life of Dinah Watts Pace, a colored 
woman of over fifty, who has devoted 
her life to making a home for homeless 
boys and girls. Mrs. Pace was educated 
at Atlanta University, and came to Cov- 
ington, Ga., when about twenty to teach 
school. She had a big, motherly heart 
and began to take into her cabin an occa- 
sional stray or lost youngster. It soon 
became known that the young teacher 
kept open house for the lonely or home- 
less children, and very soon there were 
more children than rooms. Nothing 
frightened this devoted worker and lover 
of her race. She taught every one of her 
adopted children to work in the home— 
the boys as well as the girls—the boys 
doing the heavier, the girls the lighter 
duties. Later on by their united efforts 
a few acres of land were bought. A 
friend donated money for a very modest 
house, and the family was added to from 
time to time. It is over twenty years 
now since Mrs. Pace kept “open house,” 
and during that time she has raised and 
sent out into the world about 200 children 
all equipped in some way to earn a living. 
All this has been done with very little 
money, but chiefly by a desire to make 
a home life for these helpless and home- 
less children of her own race. She has 
most certainly succeeded, for in teach- 
ing to them the dignity of labor in the 
home she has given them an inheritance 
they cannot lose, no matter how high 
up any of them may yet rise in the 
affairs of state. 





THE BURDEN 








COLORED MEN LYNCHED WITH- 


OUT TRIAL. 

aes SOO6 .is2x550s AS 
_ See 71 DO San ceanic: Ee 
Ee DSSS ee ks 107 
_. Saree EPG ie nipe es 107 
te SMe Gi s'or0 biel 86 
ES s6 xpsnwic 90 POR id saaees 86 
LRA | | 1904. . 83 
a ROOD ania coins 61 
Se BOND 6.5 )50's en s.5 
SE ea NORE ove winnie 60 
Pes kavwsian Mee BOMB So G00: 93 
| Sree 1909... 73 
PE ciesas hic 122 a) 65 

Total.....2,458 


FROM CORNELL. 


Ezra Cornell’s object is still expressed 
in the seal of the university: “I would 
found ‘an institution where any person 
might obtain instruction in any subject.” 

* * K * * 

_ Four years ago a person who wished 
instruction made application before ar- 
riving here for accommodation in the 
dormitory for female persons. The offi- 
cials in charge of the building found 
out that the applicant, although not more 
heavily pigmented than the average resi- 
dent, belonged to a type of persons 
known as colored. Shortly aiter the 
father of this girl received a curt note 
containing his deposit and informing him 
that it was a cruel imposition not to have 
said that she was a Negro. He replied 
that he was not so sure about his daugh- 
ter’s race, but that he did know she was 
a woman and that, according to the Cor- 
nell University Register, “the dormi- 
tories for women students are Sage Col- 
lege and Sage Cottage.” 

Last year two women students who had 
grown tired of climbing the hill or getting 
half-frozen waiting for the street cars 
wished to obtain rooms nearer to the 
university. The only place where they 
could even dare apply was Sage College. 
Here the Dean informed them that while 
she herself had no objection to letting 
them draw for rooms, some of the other 
occupants of the building would make it 
very unpleasant for them. These women 
were therefore obliged to go back this 
year to the Negro quarter in the lower 
part of the town; to hurry back and forth 
to their meals; to waste in going up and 
down much time and energy that they 
ought to spend in assimilating the in- 
struction that is given them; to pay more 


for carfare and living expenses than 
women in better pecuniary circumstances. 

Is this the way that Mr. Cornell’s idea 
is being carried out? Is this the way 
that Goldwin Smith’s memory is honored 
and respected? Does Andrew D. White 
approve of this state of affairs? 

* x * * + 

The authorities of the university also 
have their part in keeping alive the Cor- 
nell spirit. The man who asked whether 
Niggers ate in a public refectory now sits 
in an instructor's chair in Goldwin Smith 
Hall. My own experience with profes- 
sors would not justify the columns of 
editorials on “the gap between profes- 
sors and undergraduates” which recently 
appeared in the Sun. But how would this 
man behave to a Nigger who went into 
his class? A university is a place where 
Truth is sought and taught—broad, uni- 
versal, all-pervading Truth. It is the last 
place on earth to foster narrow, racial, 
personal prejudices. If one instructor 
does not like Niggers, another may 
despise Chinese, a third may hate Jews, 
and a fourth may have no use for any- 
body but himself, as the Sun seems to 
think. Then what becomes of the in- 
struction for any person? This is not 
the type of teachers that Cornell began 
with. These are not the men who make 
sacrifices in order to do things for others. 
A man who has strong racial or class 
antipathies is bound to show them. And 
if he has to train minds and shape char- 
acter! Such a man can never be a 
teacher in a cosmopolitan, democratic 
university—James B. Clark, ’12, in the 
Cornell University Era. 


“LOWNESS.” 

On March 2 a little white girl, eight 
years of age, was brought before the 
Children’s Court of New York on the 
charge of improper guardianship. The 
evidence proved that the child was liv- 
ing in a tenement home under the care 
of a black woman who had been a 
mother to her since her own white 
mother had deserted her seven years be- 
fore. The child was happy amid her 
surroundings, she was neatly dressed and 
there was no word of complaint against 
the woman who had reared her; never- 
theless, by order of the court, she was 
placed in the charge of a probation offi- 
cer, who at once removed her from her 
home. Her colored mother by adoption, 
the mother who had fed and clothed her, 
had given her pretty playthings, had 
trained her in sweet and virtuous ways, 





iv 


in- 
not 
an 
ike 
TS. 
ASS 


ar- 


tic 
the 





WHAT TO READ 29 


might not have her devotion recognized 
by a single hour’s further companion- 
ship. If the child.looks pretty enough 
she may be adopted by a white woman, 
but pending that time she must remain 
in an institution, not in the home that 
has sheltered her throughout her life. 

“They act as though we colored people 
were not human,” the black woman said 
when she left the court. 

“The Negroes, you know, are so low,” 
the probation officer remarked when an 
onlooker suggested the child might a lit- 
tle longer be trusted with her former 
protector. 


@ Half the farmers at Bynesville, Kan., 
living along the rural free delivery lines 
of mail have pulled down their mail 
boxes and refused to accept their mail 
from a Negro carrier recently appointed. 
Many of the farmers applied at the post 
office for their mail and announced their 
intention of continuing to do so until a 
white man should be made carrier. 


A private letter from Texas says: 
“The school is crude—such makeshifts! 
Still there are hundreds of girls and boys 
in those rough buildings eager for edu- 
cation and an opportunity to live. Yet 
the greatest lesson they seem to be learn- 
ing is cowardice. The pity of it all! I 
wonder if you have seen it as I do here. 


The children used to fight back, but now 
1 see so much cringing, such fear in their 
faces when a white man thunders at them, 
that you wonder what sort of slavery this 
is and where it is to end. The principal 
told me that the things I said to them 
were what they needed to hear, but that 
no man here dared speak that way.” 


@ Caswell McCatten, a Negro, broke all 
records in the State of Kentucky last 
month when he was sentenced to life im 
prisonment in the penitentiary for stealing. 
a Christmas turkey. As he had been sent 
to prison twice before for other offences, 
he was sent up for life under the habitual 
criminal act. 


@ Early in February two colored fami 
lies moved into a flat on Champlain Ave 
nue, Chicago, where one white family 
already lived. The white tenant did not 
object, but the neighbors did. They 
warned the white tenant to absent herself 
on a certain night. Then they drove the 
colored people away and _ incjdentally 
wrecked the white woman’s furniture. 


@ And the man of the Superior race 
stood and prayed thus with himself: 
“God, I thank Thee that I am not as 
other men are, extortioners, unjust, adul- 
terers, or even as this Black Man.” 


WHAT TO READ 


BOOKS. 

Brooks, John Graham—“An American 
Citizen; the Life of Wm. H. Baldwin, 
Jr.” Houghton, Mifflin & Company. 

Eastman, Charles A.—‘“The Soul of the 
Indian.” Houghton, Mifflin & Com- 
pany. 

“Guide to Reading in Social Ethics and 
Allied Subjects.” Edited by Francis G. 
Peabody. Harvard University. 


PERIODICALS. 


“The Slave Plantation in Retrospect.” 
W.M. Daniels. Atlantic, March. 

“Class-Consciousness.” Vida D. Scudder. 
Atlantic, March. 

“Some Recent Experiments in Human 
Conservation.” Robert W. Bruére. 
Harper’s, March. 

“Religion and Caste in India.” Price 
Collier. Scribner’s, March. 

“Climate and Racial Skin Color.” Prof. 
L. W. Lyde. The Contemporary Re- 
view, February. 


“Dynamic Forces in the Liberian Situa- 
tion,” by George W. Ellis, K.C., F-.R. 
3.8., recently Secretary of the American 
Legation in Monrovia. Journal of Race 
Development, January. Clark University. 

By means of deliberate thefts and 
thefts in the name of reform, for more 
than a quarter of a century, France and 
England have been acquiring section 
after section of Liberian territory. 

Beginning in 1821 as an American col- 
ony with less than one hundred immi- 
grants, Liberia in these ninety years has 
developed into a republic with a popula- 
tion of from 60,000 to 75,000 civilized 
Liberians engaged in the important work 
of perpetuating amid the more than 
2,000,000 aboriginals the political, social 
and religious institutions of the Amer- 
ican people. The republic includes with- 
in its 50,000 square miles a heavy forest 
and the highest mountains in West 
Africa; it possesses “untold wealth of 
mine and field and forest,” and occupies 
“a commanding position at the head of 
the Gulf of Guinea;” it is “remarkably 


30 THE CRISIS 


free from fever-laden mangrove swamps 
and marshy lagoons and is generally re- 
garded as ‘the Garden Spot of West 
Africa.’” 


The proximity of this valuable garden 
spot to the British and French posses- 
sions, which with the exception of 350 
miles of sea coast entirely surround it, 
has given rise to grave international 
questions. “Growing out of some of 
these questions, Liberia has lost section 
after section of her valuable lands; time 
and again the Liberian government has 
been humiliated before its overwhelming 
aboriginal population; but at last the 
Liberian people have been so alarmed 
and aroused by what seemed to them un- 
justifiable international interferences * * * 
that there has existed for some time such 
an abnormal and complex situation of 
affairs in Liberia as to make it now the 
scene of important international atten- 
tion and of considerable consideration 
and interest to the American government 
and people.” 

The writer continues: “France, grad- 
ually but rapidly absorbing Liberian ter- 
ritory from the north and east and jeal- 
ous of all rivals in Liberian affairs; Ger- 
many, establishing great trade and com- 
mercial centers along the Liberian coast 
and exerting its diplomatic and financial 
influence in behalf of Liberian independ- 
ence and sending more merchant ships to 
Liberian waters than any other Euro- 
pean power; Great Britain, extending at 
every convenient opportunity the terri- 
tory of Sierra Leona at the expense of 
Liberia on the west and desirous of exer- 
cising the predominant influence in the 
Liberian republic; and the United States, 
the great determinative force, having 
established Liberia and using American 
good offices in her behalf since the 
foundation of the Liberian colony, and 
contributing more than $100,000 annually 
to the support and maintenance of the 
educational and religious institutions of 
this little republic; these appear to me to 
constitute the great potential forces oper- 
ating upon the Liberian people; but 
Great Britain and France are the dy- 
namic factors in the Liberian situation. 

“The action and reaction of the dy- 
namic factors one upon the other, and 
the complex action of the two upon 
Liberian public life and social institu- 
tions, in so far as they have been put to 
unnecessary expense; in so far as the 
Liberian people have been wrongfully 
deprived of their territories; have been 
so distracted in mind and so depressed 
in spirit; have been kept so constantly in 
a keen struggle for self-preservation, 
that they have not been able to give the 
required attention to the several prob- 
lems of their internal government, the 
development of their natural resources, 
and the assimilation of their large abor- 
iginal population, to my mind in a gen- 


eral way are the main features of the 
Liberian situation.” 

The author concludes: “In the per- 
formance of a great national service the 
American people have never missed an 
opportunity. In the discharge of a great 
national duty and obligation the Amer- 
ican people have never failed or faltered. 
Liberia is threatened to be blotted from 
the map. In the most anxious expecta- 
tion we wonder if the United States will 
fail or falter now.” 


CLIMATE AND RACIAL SKIN 
COLOR. 


Prof. Lionel W. Lyde, Professor of 
Economic Geography in University Col- 
lege, London, in an article in the Con- 
temporary Review, treating of the rela- 
tion between climate and racial skin 
color, presents the conclusion that the 
acclimatization of the white man in the 
tropics will lead to changes of color. We 
give a few extracts from Prof. Lyde’s 
article: 

“The blackest skins amongst men, like 
the blackest stripes on the zebra, will be 
found—because needed—in the hottest 
parts of the world that are unforested, 
e. g., the African savana.” 

“If pigment is developed according to 
need, and if black stops more rays than 
brown, and brown than yellow, we ought 
to be able to delimit climatic color zones, 
and no individual or race can expect to 
flourish in any such zone unless protected 
artifically or naturally by the degree of 
pigment normally necessary for the zone, 
as no plant can survive without sufficient 
chlorophyll to absorb the rays of the 
particular wave length which will break 
up the carbonic oxide of the air.” 


“Comparison of the mean isotherm of 
80 deg. F. with the mean annual isohyet 
of 10 inches inside the tropics suggest, 
then, that about 25 deg. N. and S. are the 
natural limits of black skin, and that 
white people trying to settle inside these 
limits must wear coal-black undercloth- 
ing of some animal fabric, wool or silk, 
and outer clothing of pure white color 
and vegetable origin, cotton or flax. 
Even then everyone out of doors should 
—as a counsel of perfection—wear spec- 
tacles and be closely veiled.” 


“If any white man can settle in the 
tropics it is this tanned white man, but 
probably only the yellow man can settle 
there, and the blond white is probably 
doomed to disappear off the face of the 
earth. Pigment is no danger, though 
unnecessary, in high latitudes, while the 
absence of it is fatal in low latitudes 
without precautions which no ordinary 
white man will systematically adopt, and 
therefore the dark can intrude perma- 
nently into the domain of the fair with 
more success than the fair can intrude 
into the domain of the dark.” 








cc |SIY SIF SIMIT “AYN ,, 


cot 


— 


70 


2) 
a 
oe 
Oo 
= 
NN 


Ay 
4 lp vs = ’ 


— 6 
— 


<G 
_———_— y 1 SON 
=F GY 
————} 


mn e ee ET 





- = ‘ . > : 7) ' o 
ion) a cewvun vurewuwr Oc ,omt arouse ise porwovli Ge ust erevRAVOCvV#,T Lov 


32 THE CRISIS ADVERTISER 


4@ SEND TEN CENTS FOR ANY ONE OF THE 

FOLLOWING: 

No. 1. Confessions of Nat Turner. 

No. 2. Contemporary Evolution of the Negro 
Race. Wm. G. Harper. 

No. 3. Benjamin Banneker. J. H. B. Latrobe. 

No. 4. Evolution of the Black South. W. E. 
B. DuBois. Address 


American Negro Monographs Co. 


609 F St., N. W. (Boom 102), 
Washington, D. C. 


The Curse of Race Prejudice 


James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher 

Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal 
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable 
for propaganda. Read the chapter on “The Bug- 
bear of Social Equality,” which is a veritable eye- 
opener. Thousands already sold. Agents wanted 


everywhere. 
PRICE 25 CENTS 
Address the Author at 244 West 143d Street, 


7 


ew York, N. Y. 





Atlanta University 
Studies of the 
Negro Problems 


13 Monographs. Sold Separately. 
Address: 


A. G. DILL 


Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga. 


The Souls of 
Black Folk 


By W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS 


‘It is one of the noteworthy 
books, not merely of a year, but of 
the epoch. Its every page is filled 
with vigor, spontaneity and spirit- 
uality.’’—Boston Transcript. 

‘*A stripping bare of the moral 
and mental anatomy of the African 
in America so as to reveal the naked 
soul in its primitive simplicity, 
seared and scarred by ages of suf- 
fering.’’—New York Age. 

Eighth Edition 


With Frontispiece Portrait of the 
Author. $1.20 Net 


May be ordered through any book 
store or direct from the publishers 


A. C. McCLURG & CO. 


New York CHICAGO San Francisco 








BOOKS ABOUT THE NEGRO 


For any book dealing with the Negro Problem, whether written by a Negro or white author, 


send your order to Charles Alexander, 997 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass I have on hand the 


prose and poetical works of Paul J.aurence Dunbar, the novels of Charles W. Chesnutt. ‘‘Race 


Adjustment,’’ by Prof. Kelly Miller; ‘‘The Souls of Black Folk,’’ by Prof. W. E. B. DuBois; the 


complete works of Dr. Booker T. Washington; ‘‘The History of the Negro Race,’’ by George W. 

Williams, and many other important works dealing with the Race Question. You should read ‘‘The 

Biack Cat Club,’’ the funniest dialect story ever written by a colored man. Price. cloth binding, $1.25 
Address 


CHARLES ALEXANDER, BOOK AND JOB PRINTER, 997 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON, MASS. 





RACE ADJUSTMENT 


By KELLY MILLER, Howard University, Washing- 
ton, D.C. A Standard Book on the Race Question. 


PRICE $2.00 
Satin) TqQuete ie sess oetcave 5 cents 
An Appeal to Reason, open letter 
to John Temple Graves......... 10 cents 
Roosevelt and the Negro......... 10 cents 


Forty Years of Negro Education. .10 cents 
Ultimate Race Problem.......... 10 cents 
The Political Capacity of the 


PMD .vaciertcinabinewceeeek 10 cents 


ADDRESS AUTHOR 


Mention 


PUBLICATIONS OF THE N.A.A.C.P. 

The N. A. A. C. P. has for sale the following pamphlets: 

1. Disfranchisement: a powerful argu- 
ment by the Rev. John Haynes Holmes. 

2. Education in the South: Facts about 
the discrimination against the Negro. By 
the Rev. Horace Bumstead, former presi 
dent of Atlanta University. 

3. The Real Race Problem: A scientific 
comparison of the black and the white man 
by America’s foremost anthropologist, 
Prof. Boas, of Columbia University. 

4. Social Control. By Jane Addams, of 
Hull House. 

5. The Negro as a Soldier. By Brigadier 
General Burt, U. S. A. 

Five Cents Each, Three Dollars a Thousand 


Tue Crisis 





No 


No 











American Pearo Academy 


OCCASIONAL PAPERS 


No. 2 Conservation of Races. W. E. 
Burghardt DuBois ........... $0.15 
No. 3 (a) Civilization the Primal Need 


of the Race; (b) The Attitude 
of the American Mind Toward 
the Negro Intellect Alexander 
SRIIIEE. 6 w'n'noe bo mom etn KS 15 


No. 4 Comparative Study of the Negro 
Problem. Charles C. Cook.... 15 
No. 5. How the Black St. Domingo 


Legion Saved the Patriot Army 
in the Siege of Savannah, 1779 


1. GC, Qteward, U.BA.... 2.5. 15 
No. 6 Disfranchisement of the Negro. 
Ee A PP ere ee eee 15 
No. 7. Right on the Scaffold, or the 
Martyrs of 1822. Archibald H 
Aree re corre ee ee 
No. 8. Educated Negro and His Mission. 
W. 8. Scarborough..........-. .18 
No. 9. Early Negro Convention Move- 
ment. John W. Cromwell...... 15 
No. 11 Negro and the Elective Fran- 
chise: A Symposium by A. H. 
Grimke, Charles C. Cook, John 
Hope, John L. Love, Kelly Mil- 
ler and Rev. F. J. Grimke..... .35 
No. 12. Modern Industrialism and _ the 
Negroes of the United States. 
Archibald H. Grimke......... 15 
No. 138. Demand and the Supply of In- 
creased Efficiency in the Negro 
Ministry. J. E. Moreland...... 15 
No. 14. Charles Sumner Centenary. His- 
torical Address. Archibald H. 
ONION. ain. .d eb oe Sais e's et ws «15 


J. W. CROMWELL, 
Corresponding Secretary, 
1815 Thirteenth St., N.W., 
Washington, Cc. 





Legal Directory 





Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty 


ROBERT B. BARCUS 
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR-AT-LAW 
Notary Pusiic 
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block Columbus, O. 





B. S. SMITH 
\TroRNEY AND COoUNSELOR-AT-Law. 
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block 

Minneapolis, Minn. 





GEORGE W. MITCHELL 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 
908 Walnut Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 





J. DOUGLAS WETMORE 


ATTORNEY AND CoUNSELOR-aT-LAW 


5 Beekman Street (Temple Court) 
New York City 


Tel. 6222 Cortlandt Cable Address, Tudowet 





FREDERICK L. McGHEE 


ATTORNEY AND CoUNSELOR-AT-LAW 


Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets 
St. Paul, Minn. 





General Practice Notary Public 


WILLIAM R. MORRIS 
ATTORNEY AND CoUNSELOR-AT-LAW 
1020 Metropolitan Life Building 

Minneapolis, Minn. 





Mention 


THE CRISIS ADVERTISER 


Tue Crisis. 





33 
Educational Directory 
Howard University 


WILBUR P. THIRKIELD, President 
Washington, D. C. 
The College of Arts and Sciences—Kelly Miller, 
A.M., Dean. 
The Teachers’ College—Lewis B. Moore, A.M., 
Ph.D., Dean. 
The Academy—George J. Cummings, A.M., Dean. 
The eee College—George W. Cook, A.M., 
ean. 
School of Manual Arts and Applied Sciences— 
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS 
The School of Theology—Isaac Clark, D.D., Dean 
The School of Medicine: Medical, Dental and 
Pharmaceutical Colleges—Edward O. Bal- 
loch, M.D., Dean. 
The School of Law— Benjamin F. Leighton, 
LL.D., Dean. 
For catalogue and special information address 
Dean of Department. 


Atlanta University 


Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga. 
The courses of study include High School, Nor- 
mal School and College, with manual training 
and domestic science. Among the teachers are 
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith 
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful 
work have been completed. Students come from 
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost 
universally successful. 





For further information address 


President EDWARD T. WARE 


ATLANTA, GA. 





Wilberforce University 
WILBERFORCE, OHIO 


Opens first Tuesday in September 


Located in Greene County, 3% miles from Xenia, 
Ohio. Healthful surroundings. Refined commu- 
nity. Faculty of 32 members. Expenses low. 
Classical and Scientific, Theological, Preparatory, 
Music, Military, Normal and Business Depart- 
ments. Ten industries taught. Great opportuni- 
ties for High School graduates entering College or 
Professional Courses. Two new buildings for girls 
to be erected this year—one now in process of 
erection, and the other to be begun in the spring. 

Catalogue and Special Information Furnished. 


Address 
W. S. SCARBOROUGH, President. 





Shaw University 


This institution of learning, established in 1865, 
has industrial departments for both young men 
and young women, as well as college, normal and 
preparatory departments. There are also Schools 
of Law, Medicine, Pharmacy and Theology. 

The facilities have recently been increased 
Other improvements are being planned that will 
be completed within the next two years. 

Applications should be made several months or 
a year in advance, for it has become impossible 
during the last few years to receive all who apply. 
The present enrollment is over 500. 

The academic year begins on the Thursday 
nearest the first day of October and continues for 
thirty-two consecutive weeks. The charges are 
moderate. Catalogues furnished upon application. 


Address THE PRESIDENT 
Shaw University, Raleigh, N. C 


34 


Hisk University 


Sixty-five College Freshmen. 

A New Department of Sociology. 

A Notable Equipment in Land and Buildings. 

Successful Graduates in Nearly Every State. 

Endorsed by the General Education Board 
For information address 


GEORGE A. GATES, President. 





American Church Institute 
for Negroes 


SIX SCHOOLS. 


The Bishop Payne Divinity School, Peters- 
burgh, Va., Warden, the Reverend C. B. Bryan, 
D.D.; St. Augustine’s School. Raleigh, N. C., for 
normal and collegiate training, the Reverend A 
B. Hunter, Principal; the St. Paul Normal and 
Industrial School, Lawrenceville, Va., the Rev- 
erend James S. Russell, pee St. Atha- 
nasius’ School, Brunswick, Ga., Mr. A. N. Perry, 
Principal; St. Mark's School. Birmingham, Ala., 
the Reverend C. W. Brooks, Principal; the 
Vicksburg Industrial School, Vicksburg, Miss., 
the Reverend W. H. Marshall, Principal For 
information apply to the principal at any school 
or to the Reverend Samuel H. Bishop, General 
Agent, 416 Lafayette Street, New York City. 


Lincoln Institute 


JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI 


Founded by the Soldiers of the 62d and 65th 
Regiments of the U. 8. Colored Infantry. 


Supported by the State of Missouri. Has 
Normal, Collegiate, Agricultural, Mechanical and 
Industrial Courses Buildings and equipment 
unsurpassed. Thirty teachers representing the 
best schools of the country. Students from all 
sections of the country. For catalogue and fur- 
ther information address 

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN ALLEN, 
President. 








BUREAU OF 
INFORMATION 


The National Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Colored People will be 
glad to furnish correspondents confiden- 
tial information concerning schools or 
other matters connected with the Negro 


problem. 
Address 


W. E. B. DU BOIS, 
20 Vesey Street, 
New York. 


Mention 





THE CRISIS ADVERTISER 


Washington Conservatory of 
Music and School of, Expression 
902 T STREET, WASHINGTON, D. C. 


LARGE AND COMPETENT FACULTY 


DEPARTMENTS 
Piano, Voiceand Violin, Piano Tuning, Theory Analy- 
sis, Harmony, Counterpoint, Fugue, Vocal Expression, 
Wind Instruments, History of Music, Methods. 


Scholarships Awarded Artists’ Recitals 


HARRIET GIBBS-MARSHALL, President. 
GEORGE WILLIAM COOK, Treasurer. 
ABBY WILLIAMS, Secretary. 

LEWIS G. GREGORY, Financial Secretary. 
ANNIE E. GRINAGE. 


Virginia Union University 


RICHMOND, VA. 











A College Department, of high standards and 
modern curriculum. 


A Theological Department, with all subjects 
generally required in the best theological 
seminaries. 

An Academy, with manual training, giving 


&@ preparation for life or for college. 


The positive moral and religious aim of the 
school, its high standards of entrance and of 
class work, its fine new buildings and well- 
equipped laboratories and library, prepare a 
faithful student for a life of wide usefulness. 


GEORGE RICE HOVEY. President 





Che National Religious 
Craining School, Usa" 


Offers special training to young 


men and women as_ Settlement 
Workers, Association Secretaries, 
Missionaries, Literary and Other 
Branches. 


The following departments are now 
in successful operation: 


Commercial, Literary, Music, Theological 
Religious Trainiag and Industrial 
FALL TERM OPENS OCTOBER 12 


SUMMER SCHOOL. 

The Summer School and Chautau- 
qua opens July 5, 1911, and closes 
August 14. 

The attractions and advantages 
offered in the Summer School are 
unsurpassed in the country for col- 
ored young men and women. 

Applications should be sent in at 
an early date. 

Loan Scholarships have been es- 
tablished for deserving young men 
and women. 

For further information address 


The President, National Religious 
Training School, Durham, N. C. 


THE 


Crisis. 








— 


a” 
. 


ad 


ts 
al 


cal 


ous 





Ten Years with Dr. D. C. White 
Telephone 7189 Morningkside 


Dr. JAMES A. BANKS 


DENTIST 
204 WEST 133D STREET, NEW YORK 
Porcelain, Crown and Bridge Work a Specialty 
Pure Nitrous-Oxide Gas Administered 


Can’t See Well? “ce Me 


when your eyes feel painful, hot, uncomfortable 
and grow weary while reading, writing, sewing 
or looking at near objects, letters run together 
while reading and become blurred. 


Eyes examined by me and fitted with glasses 
accurately made never grow weary, but are per- 
fectly comfortable. You may not like to wear 
glasses, but do you like headaches, red eyes and 
wrinkles betterf Scientific examinations of the 
eyes for defective eyesight is my specialty. 


Dr. R. G. ADAMS, Optometrist 


Physical Eye Specialist 
16 West 134th Street, New York City, N. Y. 


A value unequaled. Sold on 
$1.00 Profit Margin. Write 
for prices and other styles. 
Send for catalog. 


C.R. Patterson & Sons 
GREENFIELD, OHIO 


Largest Negro carriage concern in the United States 


The Firm for the Negro Farmers and Shippers to Deal With 
Try Us Before Shipping Elsewhere. 


FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 


OysTEeRS AND GAME 


Pouttry aNpb Eccs 


COTTMAN & COTTMAN 


WHOLESALE COMMISSION MERCHANTS. 


Reference: The People’s Savings Bank 


NYANZA DRUG CO. 


(Incorporated. ) 
35 W. 135th ST., 


CAPITAL STOCK, $15,000 
Shares $5.00 


107 Pine Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Bell ’Phone Connection: Lombard 4035 


NYANZA PHARMACY 


is the only colored Drug Store in New York City, and 

NEW YORK CITY the purpose of the Corporation is to establish chains of 
stores, carrying Drugs and everything incidental to the 

Drug business. It is really the indi 

every self-respecting member of the race to give it his 


sputable duty of 


support. 


Write for information. The best paying 
investment ever offered our people. 


CRISIS PRINTS 


Front page illustration in three colors 
on heavy paper, 7 by 9 inches, suitable 
for framing—Fifty Cents. 


ADVERTISING RATES 


One page, each insertion 

Half page, each insertion 

Quarter page, each insertion 

One inch, one column, each insertion 
Half inch, one column, each insertion 


Discounts for insertions of one advertisement for 
three months or more. 


"Phone 2870-J Harlem. 


W. A. PARKER 


ACCIDENT INSURANCE 
19 WEST 132D STREET 


Agent Continental Casualty Company 
Largest Accident and Health Insurance Company 
in the World 


Mention 


AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE 


Your Carpet Needs Cleaning! 


Let the NEW YORK CAREFUL 
CLEANING BUREAU Do It 


We Clean and Renovate for Particular People— 
from a Rug to a House—by the Vacuum System. 
t us give you a Clean House for 
the year 1911 


‘Phone 3253 Harlem. 12 West 135th Street 


TELEPHONE 5277 MORNINGSIDE 


Or. Gertrude E. Curtis 


471 Lenox Avenue, New York City 


SURGEON 
DENTIST 


Office Hours: Bellevue Dental Clinic 
9-12 a.m. Mondays from 
2-9 p. m. 2 to 5 p. m. 


SUNDAYS BY APPOINTMENT 
WOMEN'S and CHILDREN’S WORK A SPECIALTY 





Tue Crisis. 


Frederick 
Douglass 
Memorial 
Hospital 
and 
Training 
School 


Philadelphia Pa. 


Top 
ha 


we 


Pay and free beds 
and private rooms 
Two years’ training 
for nurses. 

$5,000) endows a 
Iree bed. 


Andrew T. Stevens, 


President, 


Nathan F. Mossell, M.D., 
Medical Director and 


Superintendent 





Fred. W. Ernst, Pres B. Childs, Vice-Pres. M. Alice Ernst, Sec. 


ERNST SEWING MACHINE CO. 


Office, 20 Livingston Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT 
the rm bargain ever known in SEWING MACHINES: ours 


hardens sessemer steel th all of the itest 

: : woth on t ro . s We Ve uo set of nickel-plited 
steel ttachment ind oa tten tarantes wyoter veurs wit each niavchine Join an Ernst 
Sewing Machine Club of fifteen anc ‘ one of rn Specials, the orl wonder lo oany 
lady getting up a ¢ o yurechasin rate ne ve Il give one of on pecials for her 
troul Dressmah ove ‘ orl idorse ou iehine We ship all machir direct from 


mprovements, run 


the ctory to idt suy one of ours a uve e dealer's and agent’s profi Ours will 
do the me wkoas the Sin on i ‘ lome, on ty other, and do not cost as much 
Write us for ou 


Ernst Special ie ew: $14.75 Ernst No. 2 
Ernst No. 1..... 16.00 Alice Ernst 


Sphinx Labor-Saving Soap Co. 


A NEW AND DIFFERENT SOAP 
Costs Less—Does More 


No Suds: No Potash; No Lime. No More Washboards. No More Backaches. 
Economical for the Launcry. Cleans from Garret to Cellar. 
Best for Fabrics. Good for the Skin. 
Cleans the Hair and Scalp; Removes Dandruff. Renovates Glass, Silverware, etc. 
Removes All Stains, Ink, Blood, Iodine and Picric Acid. 


AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE. WRITE TO-DAY 


Office and Factory: 715 Herkimer St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 


Mention THe Crisis 





beds 


OMS 


nine 


dtevens, 





