THE CRISIS 


A RECORD OF THE DARKER, RACES 


Volume 1-2 


November 1910 - October 1911 


AUTHORIZED REPRINT EDITION 


ARNO PRESS 


A Publishing and Library Service of The New York Times 


NEW YORK « 1969 








Reissued in cooperation with the 
NAACP 


- 
Library of Congress Catalog Card No. 70-84750 


* 


Manufactured in the United States of America 





THE CRISIS 


A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES 


Volume One NOVEMBER, 1910 Number One 


Edited by W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS, with the co-operation of Oswald Garrison Villard, 
J. Max Barber, Charles Edward Russell, Kelly Miller, W. S. Braithwaite and M. D. Maclean. 


CONTENTS 
Along the Color Line 
Opinion 
Editorial 
The N. A. A.C. P. 12 
Athens and Browns- 


“se «we « YB 


By MOORFIELD STOREY 


The Burden. . . 14 
WhattoRead . . 15 


PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE 


National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
AT TWENTY VESEY STREET NEW YORK CITY 


ONE DOLLAR A YEAR TEN CENTS A COPY 





ONE OF THE SUREST WAYS 
TO SUCCEED IN LIFE IS TO 
TAKE A COURSE AT 


Che Couissant Conservatory 
of Art and Music 


253 West 134th Street 
NEW YORK CITY 


The most up-to-date and thoroughly equipped conservatory in 
the city. Conducted under the supervision of 


MME. E. TOUISSANT WELCOME 
The Foremost Female Artist of the Race 


Courses in Art 


Drawing, Pen and Ink Sketching, Crayon, Pastel, Water Color, 
Oil Painting, Designing, Cartooning, Fashion Designing, Sign Painting, 
Portrait Painting and Photo Enlarging in Crayon, Water Color, Pastel 
and Oil. Artistic Painting of Parasols, Fans, Book Marks, Pin 
Cushions, Lamp Shades. Curtains, Screens, Piano and Mantel Covers, 
Sofa Pillows, etc. 


+ 


Music 
Piano, Violin, Mandolin, Voice Culture and all Brass and Reeu 


Instruments. 


TERMS REASONABLE 





over 


Ser 
bill it 
ing cé 
He sa 


T 
4,000 








Along the Color Line 








POLITICAL. 


HF. “grandfather” clavse of the Arkansas 
Constitution reads as follows: 
“Section 4a. No person shall be 


registered as an elector of this State, or be al- 
lowed to vote in any election held herein, unless 
he be able to read and write any section of the 
Constitution of the State of Oklahoma; but no 
person who was on January |, 1866, or at any 
time prior thereto, entitled to ‘ole under any 
form of gove-nment, or who at that time resided 
in some foreign nation, and no lineal descendant 
of such person, shall be denied the right to 
register and vote because of his inability to so 
read and write sections of such Constitution. 

“Precinct election inspectors ha ‘ing in charge 
the registration of electors shall enforce the pro- 
visions of this section at the time of registration, 
provided registration be required. Should regis- 
tration be dispensed with the provisions of this 
section shall be enforced by the precinct elec- 
tion officers when electors apply for ballots to 
vote.” 

This amendment has been voted upon and the 
votes can: assed, but an official count has not been 
announced, and probably will not be until just 
before the general election in November. 


The Hon. J. C. Napier will replace the Hon. 
W. T. Vernon, of Kansas, as Register of the 
United States The Chattanooga 
Times gives the following reasons for the change: 


Treasury. 


“It appears now that Vernon has outlived his 
usefulness, since he could not help the administra- 
tion to stem the msurgent wave that recently 
swept over the Sunflower State, and that his re- 
appointment was contingent on his success in that 
campaign. It is learned from that day he was 
ma*ked for retirement. 

“Tennessee Republican politicians readily rec- 
ognized the opportunity to make a master stroke 
and impression on the Negro vote in Tennessee, 
by recognizing one of their race with an impor- 
tant office. 

“Napier for eight years was a member of the 
Republican State Committee, but the white mem- 
bers fell out with him at the recent state con- 
vention when it was believed that he had agreed 
to use his influence with the Negroes in favor of 
Patterson Since he was deposed the committee 
has been without Negro membership, and this sop 
is held out to pacify the rebellious Negroes all 
over the state.” 


Senator Cummins, of lowa, will introduce a 
bill into Congress for direct primaries in select- 
ing candidates for President and Vice-President. 
He says: 

“To me the injustice is plain of permitting the 
4,000 Republicans of Mississippi to cast 20 votes 


Wn 


in the convention, while Iowa, with 300,000 Re- 


publicans, can cast only 26. Is it right that 
Georgia, with only 30,000 Republican voters, 
should have exactly the same number of delegates 
as lowa, with ten times that number of Republi- 
can votes? Every one recognizes that the Repub- 
lican party—such as it is in the far Southern 
States—is composed almost wholly of Federal 
officeholders and those who want Federal office. 
It has been demonstrated time and time again 
that the delegates to Republican national conven- 
tions from these states are absolutely venal and 
that they uniformly vote with the administration 
forces, which purchase them by means of post- 
offices and collectorships.” 


The United Colored Democracy of the State 
of New York has been organized for the coming 
campaign. They demand a colored regiment in 
the New York National Guard, and also colored 


policemen and firemen. 


J. C. Manning and the progressive Republicans 
in A'abama are fighting Mr. Washington's politi- 
cal influence in that state. 


The newly elected Governor of South Caro- 
line. B'ease, made his fight on a platform op- 
posing Negro education and prohibition. 


The Negroes of South Carolina gained com- 
plete control of the State Republican Convention. 


The Hon. P. B. S. Pinchback, once Recon- 
struction Governor of Louisiana, has been ap- 
pointed to the Internal Revenue Service in Cin- 
cinnati, O. ; 

The Colored Independent Po'itical League has 
decided to support the Democratic ticket in Ohio, 
New York and New Je-sey; the Republican 
tickets in Delaware and West Virginia, and to 
fa or Senator Bulkeley, of Connecticut, and op- 
pose Senator Lodge, of Massachusetts. Local In- 
dependent organizations are at work in New 


York, Ohio, New Jersey, Utah and Missouri. 


The National Executive Committee of the 
Socialist party have aopointed Lena Morrell Lewis 
and Ceo ge A. Goebel a committee of two to 
investigate the condition of the Negro in America. 


Suit has been brought in the United States Cir- 
cuit Court to compel the city of Annapolis, Md., 
to register colored voters. Annapolis by city 
o dinance has attempted to nullify the Fifteenth 
Amendment. 








The Democratic platform in Missouri says: 

“The Democratic party when it came into 
power in 1871, took over the Lincoln Institute and 
made it a normal school for the higher education 
of the Negro teachers, and it has always made 
liberal appropriations for that purpose and for the 
education of the Negro school children of the 
State. It never has and will not discriminate 
against the Negro, either by criminal laws or on 
the question of their rights of franchise, and it 
deplores the action of the present chief executive 
of this State in seeking to make political capital 
by creating race antagonism.” 

R. S. Rutledge so resents this plank that he 
has withdrawn from the race for nomination as 
United States Senator. 

The colored people of Cleveland, O., have 
received twenty-three appointments to minor offices 
to reward their support of Mayor Baehr, who 
defeated Tom Johnson. Beside these officials the 
colored people have a member of the Legis!a- 
ture and a member of the City Council. 

The Negroes of Atlanta prepared an elaborate 
program on the occasion of Theodore Roosevelt's 
speech to them. 

The Republicans have nominated Thomas 
Briar, a colored man, to run for Congress in the 
Fourth District of South Carolina. 


In the twelve counties of the Eighth Congves- 
sional District of Georgia there were only 
392 colored men registered as voters. Even 
these, however, very nearly held the balance of 
power in the last Congressional election. 

A press dispatch from Panama says: 

“It became known to-day that Mendoza sent 
a messenger asking Colonel Goethals to call at 
the Presidential palace. The army man, by mes- 
senger, asked if he was wished personally or in 
his official capacity. Several other notes were 
passed back and forth, Goethals finally going. 

“When he reached the palace, Mendoza re- 
fused to see him. It is said that the snub was 
caused by Colonel Goetha!s drawing the color 
line in the first place, Mendoza being a Negro.” 


EDUCATION. 


Miss Alice Byington has left Hampton Insti- 
tute $260,750. 





New Orleans has four Negro schools with white 
teachers and ten with Negro teachers. It has 


been decided to place Negro teachers in the new 
Thomy Lafon School Annex. 





“Paskegee has received about $409,000 from 
the Dotger bequest. 


A Negro industrial school is taiked of in 
Pueblo, Col 

White Sawyer, a Missouri Negro, has lost 
the suit in which he attempted to compel the 
school trustees to transport his children. There 
is only one colored school in his township and 
that is six miles from his home. 


An industrial school is to be founded in 
Nicodemus, Kansas, a colored colony planted at 
the time of the exodus. 

A. B. Johnson, of Mississippi, states that in his 
own county with less than 7,000 Negroes of school 
age over 5,000 have never been to school. 


Effort is being made in Washington, D. C., 
to‘:emove R. C. Bruce, the colored superintend- 
ent, for alleged incompetency. 


In a talk to white Atlanta ministers a colored 
preacher asked that influence be used to improve 
public school facilities for the Negroes. He said 
the Negro school children of Atlanta number 
10,000 and he declared 5,081 of the number are 
out of school. “The Negroes of this city pay 
$10,000 for education of their children,” he 


stated, “that the whites get free.” 


The city of Chattanooga has refused to take 
steps toward establishing a Negro normal school. 
It is much needed. 


H. T. Kealing, formerly editor of the African 
M. E. Review, has been elected president of 
Western University, at Quindaro, Kansas. 

There are a large number of applicants for the 
position of president of the Kentucky Normal and 
Industrial Institute at Frankfort. 

The colored Baptist Women's Convention has 
voted $15,000 to the National Training School 
for Girls in the District of Columbia. 





The Negroes of Georgia have raised $25,000 
as a memorial offering at the quarterly centennial 
of Morris Brown College. 


The white boys of the Doolittle Public School 
of Chicago have tried to get rid of the Negro 
pupils. The result has been a good deal of 
fighting. 


THE CHURCH. 


A colored institute in memory of Bishop 


Dudley has been dedicated at Louisville, Ky. 





The convention of the Episcopal Church has 
authorized suffragan bishops. This will allow the 
segregation of colored people under bishops who 
will act as assistants to the regular bishops and 
have no vote in the convention. The colored 
people asked for missionary bishops who would 
vote in the convention. Such bishops are to be 
permitted only in case the bishop and convention 
consent. 


There is considerable interest in Southern 
white churches over missionary and educational 
work among Negroes. The subject was discussed 
at a recent Bible institute in the University of 
Tennessee and the Atlanta Constitution has had 
several editorials. 


Bishop .John Wesley Smith of the African 
Zion Church Is dead. 


Chi 


SIOr 
hel 
Ne; 
peo 
mis 


cop 
hel 


mos 
don 
the 
hav 
imp 
no 

pre: 
mer 
and 
fere 
Bri 
hun 
law 
the 

the 

ting 
of ] 
twe 
ap 
higl 


nun 
Nei 
clut 
striy 
whi 
the 
orge 
divi 
vill 
or t 
eacl 


at 


his 
ool 


red 
ove 
said 
iber 


pay 


he 


take 
ool. 


ican 


- the 


and 


has 
-hool 


»,000 


nnial 


chool 
Jegro 


il of 


ishop 


h has 
w the 
_ who 
; and 
slored 
would 
to be 
ention 


ithern 
tional 
cussed 
ity of 
s had 


frican 


ALONG THE COLOR LINE 5 


Bishop T. N. Morrison, of the Episcopal 
Church, says: 

“I would impress upon those interested in mis- 
sionary work my belief that there is more of a 
field for good and advantageous work among the 
Negroes of the United States than among the 
people of foreign countries and I will urge that 
missionaries’ work begin at home.” 


The twenty-sixth annual \meeting of the Epis- 
copal Church workers amon colored people was 
held this year in the city of Cleveland, O. 


SOCIAL UPLIFT. 


A congress, which promises to be one of the 
most influential of our time, is to be held in Lon- 
don July 26-29, 1911, in the central building of 
the University of London. The list of those who 
have extended to it their moral support is most 
imposing. Among the supporters, who hail from 
no less than fifty countries, are over twenty-five 
presidents of Parliaments, the majority of ithe 
members of the Permanent Court of Arbitr:Mion 
and of the delegates to the Second Hague Gon- 
ference, (twelve British governors and eight 
British premiers, over forty colonial bishops, some 
hundred and thirty professors of international 
law, the leading anthropologists and sociologists, 
the officers and the majority of the Council of 
the Inter-Parliamentary Union, and other dis- 
tinguished personages. The list of the writers 
of papers includes eminent representatives of over 
twenty civilizations, and every paper referring to 
a particular people is prepared by some one of 
high standing belonging to it. 


The Rhode Island Union of Colored Women 
numbers 12 clubs—one in Pawtucket, three in 
Newport and eight in Providence. Each of these 
clubs is doing excellent work in its own way, 
striving to solve the problems nearest home. But 
while the local club has its particular function, 
the demands of the union upon each individual 
organization is equally great. The work is 
divided into four general departments—parents, 
village improvement, hero and race library. One 
or two members from each club is represented in 
each department. 


The Associated Charities of Lexington, Ky., 
are giving talks to colored people on consumption. 

Mr. Booker T. Washington while in Europe re- 
ceived much social attention. In an interview in 
the Morning Post he said that the race problem 
in the South is becoming more and more reas- 
suring. On landing in America Mr. Washington 
announced that the Negroes in the United States 
were better off than the poor classes in Europe. 


A Carnegie they See ‘iw will be built 
in Montgomery, Ala. 








The need of a reformatory for Negro youth 
is being agitated in Georgia. 

Colored state Sale: oie being held this fall in 
Virginia, Kentucky, Georgia and other states. 





Governor Hadley, of Missouri, has appointed a 
Negro tuberculosis commission consisting of six 
Negro physicians and one lady. 


That powerful Negro empires of great size and 
some culture existed in the Sudan before the white 
races entered Africa is the conviction of a French 
scientist, M. Zeltner, who reports in La Nature 
on the results of his archeological investigations 
in the basins of the rivers Niger and Senegal. 

Within a triangle formed by the towns 
of Timbuctoo, Kayes and Bamako he _lo- 
cated fifty-two archeological deposits consist- 
ing of ruins of unknown cities. M. Zeltner’s 
most interesting finds were made in caves on the 
upper Senegal. Here an abundance of runic 
signs and drawings were found traced on rocks. 
They were similar in character to those discovered 
in South African caverns. The writings have 
some resemblance to those signs found on ancient 
ruins further eastward in the Sahara desert, and 
are believed by M. Zeltner to be related to the 
present Tuareg alphabet. 

The discoveries made have yet to be thoroughly 
studied. M. Zeltner thinks that the archeological 
exploration of the African continent is yet in its 
infancy and will doubtless yield surprising re- 
sults in establishing the advanced state of 
development attained by the black races in early 
times.—/V. Y. Sun. 





ORGANIZATIONS AND MEETINGS. 


Clark University has held an interesting con- 
ference on the East and Africa. 

The subjects discussed were Turkey, Persia, 
Bulgaria, Arabia, Egypt and Africa. Among the 
speakers were: Dr. A. T. Chamberlain, on “The 
Contributions of the Negro to Human Civiliza- 
tion; G. W. Ellis, F.R.G.S., on Liberia; the 
Rev. L. P. Clinton, on West Africa; Professor 
Frederic Starr, on the Congo, and E. A. Forbes, 
on French Africa. Messrs. Ellis and Clinton 


are colored. 





Colored people in Ohio and Maryland have 
held celebrations commemorating the issuance of 
Lincoln's preliminary Emancipation Proclamation 


in 1863. 





At the Appalachian Exposition, which is being 
held in Knoxville, the Negroes have a special 
exhibit and are conducting a series of celebra- 
tions. 


During the summer the following colored or- 
ganizations have held annual meetings: National 
Association of Colored Women’s Clubs, at Louis- 
ville, Ky.; National Association of Colored 
Physicians and Surgeons, at Washington, D. C.; 
National Colored Baptist Association, at New 
Orleans, La.; the Niagara Movement, at Sea 
Isle City, N. J.; the Independent Political 
League, at Atlantic City, N. J.; the Negro Busi- 
ness League, in New York City; the Colored 
Elks, at Washington, D. C., and the Grand 
United Order of Odd Fellows, at Baltimore. It 
is estimated that nearly 12,000 people attended 
these various conventions. 








6 THE CRISIS 


ECONOMIC. 


Baltimore is aroused over the fact that the 
Neg-oes ave buying property on McCulloh 
Street. They are proposing to pass an o-dinance 
which provides that, within a section specified, it 
shall not be lawful for any white person to move 
into or begin to occupy any house as a residence 
in any street in which a majority of the bona fide 
residents are Negroes; and, on the other hand, 
that it sha'l not be lawful hereafter for any 
Negro to move into, or begin to occupy, as a 
residence, any house in a street in which the 
majority of bona fide residents are already white 
people. There is further provision that it shall be 
unlawful hereafter for any person to open, or 
cause to be opened, any new streets to be used 
for residences, without first declaring in the appli- 
cation for a permit to build whether the houses 
are to be built for and occupied by whites or 
Negroes, and the building inspector is to issue a 
permit accordingly. 

It is to be noticed that this ordinance does not 
interfere with any residence heretofore acquired. 
The invasion of Negro property owners is put 
down as a reason for the failure of Baltimore to 
grow faster in population. 


A similar question has arisen in Kausas City, 
Kan., where the Mercantile Club proposes to cut 
off threatened Negro invasion by having the state 
buy the property for parks and boulevards. 


In Richmond, Va., a colored syndicate is about 
to buy property near a park. This is said to be 
viewed with alarm at the city hall and the city 
is urged to buy it. 


In St. Louis a new Civic Realty Company is 
seeking to organize public opinion and _ social 
ostracism against persons who sell property to 
Negroes. 


The Baltimore News has sent a correspondent 
through the South to see how the Negro ghettos 
are arranged there. 

Most of the cities say that “public opinion” 
keeps the Negro population segregated and inti- 
mate that mob violence is ready to enforce this 
opinion together with social ostracism for the 
white se'ler of the property. In Alabama dis- 
franchisement is said to keep colored fo!ks “‘in 
their places.” 


An ordinance for the physical separation of 
white and black residents is being urged in 
Atlanta. Negroes are not to live in white set- 
tlements “except as servants or tenants in the 


rear? 


The Central Labor Union of New Orleans, 
La., has written a letter refuting the statement 
that increased pay of Negro laborers has de- 
creased their efficiency. 





J. H. Grant has a $20,000 Negro shoe store in 
Memphis, Tenn., and is trying to establish a 
chain of such stores in various Southern cities. 


It is charged that the Barbers’ State Board of 
Examiners of Missouri refused to license colored 
schools for training barbers. 

The advice given the Negro to go South in 
the Negro Business League has given rise to 
much comment. G. W. Crawford, in the Even- 
ing Post, strongly combats the idea. “The 
Negro question in all its troublesome aspects 
must be nationalized,” he says 


BROWNSVILLE. 


Attention has been called to the fact that the 
25th Infantry, which has recently been so warmly 
commended for work in putting out the forest 
fires, was the same regiment some of whose mem- 
bers were dismissed without a trial for alleged 
but unproven crimes at Brownsville, Tex. 


A paper read before the British Association 
for the Advancement of Science and quoted in 
Current Literature has an excellent statement of 
the physical status of the Negro, placing him 
high among the races of the world. The paper 
concludes that in many points the Negro is 
more highly specialized than the less pigmented 
races of mankind, while in others he is more 
primitive. It says that all earlier human races 
were probably colored. 


A Negro physician of Stanford, Ky., has 
patented a car-coupling device. 

Professor Wilder, of Cornell, reports the case, 
of a white man with an intelligent brain of 
about one-half the average weight. This is fur- 
ther evidence that mere brain weight is no indi- 
cation of mentality. 


ART. 
Carl Diton has sailed for Europe to study the 
piano. 
Clarence White, the violinist, is giving a series 
of concerts throughout the country. 
Ms:. Joseph Douglass is making his regular 
concert tour. 


Theodore Cable, of Harvard University, has 
been admitted to one of the college musical 
societies as a performer upon the violin. 

Denver is planning a theatre for colored 
people. One is in operation in Washington, 
D. C. There are scores of moving-picture 
shows opened recently for colored patronage in 
the border states. 

New York is becoming an art center for 
colored people, especially in music and acting. 
It is the headquarters of Bert Williams, Cole 
& Johnson and Will Marion Cook. One of 
the latest and most interesting developments is 
the Clef Club Orchestra of one hundred and 


thirty musicians, under James Reese Europe. 


witl 
edu 
It 5 
hel; 


Jou 


are 
to-c 
pop 
eco! 
recl 
arig 


be | 


edu 
For 
Al 


cen 


to 
Th 
sho 


cati 


ave 
chil 
chil 


ina: 


336 


an 


sch 
Or 


han 
anc 
bee 
vag 
slit 


in | 
40 
ced 
Str 
Din 


you 


this 


par 
aga 


of 


mel 


the 
nly 
rest 


zed 


ion 
in 


of 


per 

is 
ited 
ore 
aces 


has 


case, 


fur- 


ndi- 


the 


eries 


ular 


has 


sical 


ored 
gton, 
cture 
e in 


for 
ting. 
Cole 
e of 
ts is 


and 


OPINION 


HE only thing that makes me afraid is 
T what you call the race problem here in 
America. It's a hard thing to contend 
with. The colored people should have been 
educated first, and then gradually emancipated. 
It was a mistake to set them free untutored and 
helpless.—Cardinal Logue in the N. Y. Evening 
Journal. 


Probably the new census will show that there 
are ten millions of Negroes in the United States 
to-day; that more than one-tenth of our total 
population is colored. Statesmen, educators and 
economists realize that this mighty force must be 
reckoned with soberly; that it must be guided 
aright or else the consequences to the nation will 
be catastrophic.—Troy Press. 


What is the Democratic oligarchy doing in 
educating the white masses in the South to-day ? 
For example, let us investigate the conditions in 
Alabama. There were, at the taking of the 
census of 1900, 731,599 children of from five 
to twenty years of age, inclusive, in this state. 
The total school enrollment in Alabama, as 
shown in the report of the department of edu- 
cation for 1906-7, was 386,478. 

Of those enrolled, and this does not imply 
average attendance, there were 258,998 white 
children. There were, therefore, 133,618 white 
children who did not even so much as enroll, 
inasmuch as there were 392,616 white chi.dren 
of school age in Alabama in 1900. Of the 
338,980 Negro children of school age there was 
an enrollment of 127,480, leaving just 111,500 
Negro children without the experience of a 
school enrollment—Joseph Manning in the 
Original Rights Magazine. 


The Negro who is trained to work with his 
hands, to become industrious, to own property 
and to acquire a “stake in the country,” has 
been presented with an insurance policy against 
vagrancy and its product—crime.—Altlanta Con- 
stilulion. 


A colored man said in regard to the Balti- 
more segregation o:dinance: 

“This ordinance will keep the colored citizens 
in the alleys and put the race back where it was 
40 years ago. The streets that have been con- 
ceded to the colored people have been Biddle 
Street, Druid Hill Avenue, Etting Street, 
Division Street and Argyle Avenue. How can 
you get 100,000 intelligent colored citizens into 
this small area?” 

Mr. Jacob M. Levy, representing the Socialist 
party, spoke next, saying the party protested 
against any measure that would prohibit a man 
of any race or color from changing his environ- 
ment. He said: 


“Believing as we do that the whole human 
family is one brotherhood, without distinction of 
race, color or creed, and that all ‘of them con- 
tribute their share to the sum total of our 
development and civilization, we are unalterably 
opposed to any measure that may deprive the 
least of them of the same privileges and oppor- 
tunities granted to others. On the face of this 
ordinance is stamped iniquity, injustice, hypocrisy 
and special privilege to the few. Property rights 
are placed above human rights. We stand for 
human rights first. 

“Although I own property on Druid Hill 
Avenue and on Lombard Street, the former oc- 
cupied by colored people, | would rather see my 
property become absolutely valueless than to see 
human rights placed below the interests of prop- 
erty. 

Mr. Charles Kemper, secretary of the Socialist 
party in Baltimore, followed Mr. Levy. He 
declared the ordinance to be ridiculous and said 
the whole question was not a racial one, but one 
of property. 

“The colored man has been paid such a low 
wage that he has for years been unable to live 
as well as he wished,” he said. ‘Now that he 
has become able to improve his living conditions, 
do you propose to prevent him? The last clause 
of the ordinance gives the whole measure the lie. 
It does not prohibit the buying of property by 
white or black. Do you think you can prevent a 
man from living in the house that belongs to 
him ?"’—Baltimore Sun, report of hearings on 
segregation ordinance. 


To the Editor of The Evening Sun: 

On behalf of our glorious sons and sires, on 
behalf of our virtuous wives and daughters, on 
behalf of that dominant and peerless race nur- 
tured and reared upon the sacred soil of 
“Maryland, my Maryland,” I protest, in the 
name of white supremacy and white manhood, 
against the false and dishonoring sentiment “that 
it is no humiliation nor disgrace to live next door 
to a Negro!""—Baltimore Sun. 


The concentration of Negroes in back alleys 
and elsewhere in the choice residential districts 
has been the result of innumerable causes, the 
poverty following the war, the long years of 
depression and the great age of the town, but 
now that we are engaged in magnificent public 
enterprises for the beautification of the city, 
such as the construction of the Boulevard, it 
behooves us to take thought for the reclamation 
of entire residential sections. The segregation 
of the races is quite as desirable in Charleston 
as in Baltimore. The latter fights to prevent the 
encroachment of the one race on the other. Our 
fight should be to correct what is already an evil 
of long standing.—Charleston (S. C.) News and 


Courier. 








8 THE CRISIS 


If a Negro went into a white restaurant in 
our town and sat at a iable and ordered a meal 
our citizens would want io lynch him, or he 
would be arrested and a heavy fine imposed upon 
him. The same should be done to a white 
person that would go into a Negro restaurant 
and sit at a table and eat a meal. Last Sun- 
day night while returning home from the de- 
pot after the excursion train left we saw two 
white men and women sitting at a table in a 
Negro restaurant on Suwannee street and eat- 
ing supper and seemed to be just as contented 
as if they were in a first-class white restaurant. 


—White Springs (Fla.) Messenger. 


There was just one thing lacking at yester- 
day's session of the National Negro Business 


League, when those present were told what 
was expected of them if they hoped to do 
credit to their race and to their country. A 


few members of the 25th Infantry in uniform 


to represent the dismissed battalion, the fate 
of which received the attention of Congress 
some time ago, would have furnished a wel- 


come touch of color and reminded the delegates 
that a grateful nation never forgets. It would 
have given point also to the following passage 
in the address (by Mr. Roosevelt) : 

“I am the last man in the world to slur over 
the injustice that good Negroes are often sub- 
jected to, but I feel that the really substantial 
way to remedy that injustice is so to carry 
yourselves that the white man will be compelled 
to recognize in his colored neighbor a good and 
honest worker, an effective citizen and a self- 
respecting man.” 

However, judging from the good temper which 
pervaded the gathering, and the rapture with 
which the excellent platitudes were received, it 
is clear that a short memory is one of the use- 


ful and comfortable endowments of the Negro 
race.—N. Y. Sun. 


“I gather from your article in the June 
Crown that you think the negro to be as good 
as the white man. Am I right? I think you 
are doing great harm in encouraging the negro 
in his pretensions. He is all right as long as 
he keeps in his place. But he is not the equal 
of the white man and he never will be, and we 
will take care that he stays where he belongs. 
We will use force if need be, law or no law. I 
want to say that I cannot support a publication 
that encourages the negro. 
FRIEND: 

You ask whether, in my judgment, the Negro 
is as good as the white man. Now I will not 
venture to say that the Negro is as good as 
you; for I do not know how good you are. 
But |. will put it this way: The Negro is 

* , % 
as good as I am. You certainiy cannot object 
to my appraising myself; and I say that the 
Negro is as good as I am. I also say that I 
am as good as you or any other man that lives 
or has lived or ever will live! 

You can draw your own 


) inferences.—T he 
Crown (Newark, N. J.) 

To those who have taken the trouble to 
study the moral, social, intellectual and material 
progress of the colored people of this country 


during the past four decades, the advancement 
must be amazing.—The Banker and Invester. 

A white man succeeds a Negro as Collector 
of Internal Revenue for Georgia. In making 
this appointment the President follows the policy 
announced by him early in March, 1909, when 
he said that Negroes would not be named for 
ofice “against the wishes of the whites.” In 
every Southern State colored men are thus barred 
as completely as though citizenship had never 
been conferred upon them. 

In many Northern States the colored vote 
might easily put it out of the power of the Re- 
publicans to elect Presidents at all. Ohio in 
particular is so situated. That the local politi- 
cians recognize the value of the colored contin- 
gent is shown by the platform adopted on July 
27 last by the Republican State Convention, 
in which there was the usual demand for the 
strict enforcement of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth 
and Fifteenth Amendments, with the familiar 
phrases about equal rights and opportunities. 

There is no uncertainty in these matters ex- 
cept upon one point. We know that so: far as 
resolutions are concerned the great Republican 
heart is still true to the colored man. We know 
that all Negroes look alike to the Republican 
President and that he will have none of them. 
We are in doubt only as to the ticket that the 
Northern black man will vote in November, es- 


pecially in Ohio.—The N. Y. World. 


Just because Johnson has succeeded in reach- 
ing the top in pugilism, it does not alter the 
fact that he is a Negro and is not entitled to 
prestige in the cleaner and better sport of auto- 
mobile racing — “Wild Bob” Burman, driver of 
Buick cars. 


The continued existence of the color prejudice 
that is peculiar to the American people is one 
of the most singular features of our national life. 
It is probably due to the lurking consciousness 
that the white people of the United States owe 
a debt to the Negro race that can never be 
repaid. None are so unforgiving as those who 
are conscious that they have most to be forgiven. 
It takes more than common magnanimity to 
cherish a friendly feeling toward those you 
have wronged, and the American people have 
hardly attained to that point of magnanimity 
yet. But we will get there in time, and learn to 
value men for their own qualities and not on 
account of their color or their pedigree —Brook- 
lyn Times. -— - 


The recent heated political debates between 
leading white men of Georgia has for the time 
being suspended. Party rules based upon race 
lines will compel contestants to submit to the de- 
cision of a vote in the primary that is only par- 
tisan to the extent of being anti-Negro. No 
candidate, whatever his personal feeling toward 
his colored fellow citizens, has dared to put in 
a word favorable to them. * * * Taxation 
without representation was oppressive when the 
American Colonies declared their purpose to be 
independent of the English crown, and it is no 
less so when practiced by the descendants of 
the men who gave it out to the world. Con- 
sider this~matter soberly and wisely and then 
act—Georgia Baptist (colored.) 


Ss 
1e 
to 
D- 


of 


ce 
ne 
fe. 


ve 
be 
ho 
on. 

to 
ou 
ive 
ity 

to 


sh 
pen 


ace 


hen 


OPINION 9 


One of the biggest tasks awaiting the energetic 
and intelligent action of the American Socialists 
is our great Negro problem. It is by no means 
disposed of by reference to our theoretical dec- 
laration for human equality regardless of race, 
creed or color. The problem is here, a mo- 
mentous part of the general labor problem. For 
behind all the antagonism to the Negro lurks 
the desire of capitalism to keep the colored peo- 
ple down in a state of political helplessness so 
that they may all the easier be exploited for the 
benefit of the profit makers.—The Call. 

It is one thing to govern colored peoples. It 
is another to live with them. The States has 
the harder problem, and the problem is not of 
its own making. Until we have a Mr. Roose- 
velt of our own, we shall not hasten to advise 
the States, and we shall be as careful in our 
censure as im our advice. 

But we must recognize, for it is of primary 
importance, this new and violent spirit which is 
growing in America, under pressure of the 
Negroes from within and the yellow races from 
without. This new spirit-—the result partly of 
jealousy, partly of contempt, partly of mere 
physical repulsion—is crushing, if it has not 
already crushed, the religious sentiment of the 
equality of men. How far wiil the spirit spread? 
There are those who see in it the foreshadow 
of the great conflict of the future, when, as 
they believe, the white races will fight for their 
existence against the colored races coming up 


out of the East—The World (England). 


As is well known in South Carolina, the dis- 
trict funds are not divided among the schools of 
the district in proportion to enrollment, but every 
Negro child counts as much as a white child 
in securing funds for the district. The Negro 
schools afford the best opportunity for padding 
the rolls. In fact, a contract with Negro teach- 
ers is not infrequently made in South Carolina 
in which the salary to be received by the teacher 
is dependent on the number of children enrolled. 

State Supervisor of Rural Schools in the 
Charleston (S. C.) News and Courier. 

Christian people, in general, at the South, 
are coming to recognize that the white race 
cannot pursue a policy of repression toward the 
Negroes without repressing and degrading their 
own race. They are coming to realize that the 
only way for the whites to live with an inferior 
race all about them, without being injured by the 
presence of this different race, is to lift that 
race up as opportunity offers, by the exercise of 
Christian helpfulness. 

The trouble about holding another man down 
is that one cannot get up to do anything else 
while he is engaged in the job.—Raleigh (N. C.) 
Record (white). 

It has been noted that the Negro has secured 
entrance into occupations which had been closed 
to him. It is the opinion of many who have 
given the matter attention that the large so- 
called colored class is developing greater capac- 
ity and desire for skilful pursuits, and that 
many individuals have made great personal ad- 
vancement. To what extent such conditions 


have been developed and what future hope there 
is for the Negro in heretofore barred fields will 
be made subjects for future inquiry and report 
in next year’s volume.—Annual Report of Penn- 
sylvania Bureau of Industrial Statistics. 

The Times would be astonished if it could 
only know the division of sentiment among 
Negroes of this State. Hundreds and hundreds 
of Negroes “buck” at the lily white Republi- 
can ticket, and they have been waiting to see 
what the regular Democrats would do on October 
6, and should the Democrats put out an accept- 
able and in the least conservative man you will 
see a larger division of the Negro vote in the 
State of Tennessee than ever before. Not all 
the Negroes now can be led into the shambles 
by the ever-alluring “slush funds."’—Colored 
correspondent in Chattanooga Times. 

The white people of a state which does 
this are hurting themselves. Self-government 
is the thing that educates men to be citizens, 
and awakens loyalty to the state or nation. 
The state that takes away the rights of half its 
citizens is turning that half into a group that will 
eventually have no loyalty to the state—why 
should they have? But education is getting 
down to all in this land. It will reach these. 
The papers come to them and they can_ think 
Some day they will organize and then there will 
be what >? Rebellion ? No, for those who are 
not citizens cannot rebel. But there will be 
clashes, demands of rights, even by blood 
And the state that takes away men’s votes on 
race lines deserves all the consequences of race 
hatred this will inevitably bring.—Christian 


W ork. 


The part of him that was Western in_ his 
Southwestern origin, Clemens kept to the end, 
but he was the most dissouthernized Southerner 
1 ever knew. No man more perfectly sensed, 
and more entirely abhorred, slavery, and no 
one has ever poured such scorn upon the second- 
hand, Walter-Scotticised, pseudo-chivalry of the 
Southern ideal. He held himself responsible for 
the wrong which the white race had done the 
black race in slavery, and he explained, in pay- 
ing the way of a Negro student through Yale, 
that he was doing it as his part of the reparation 
due from every white man to every black man. 
He said he had never seen this student—never 
wished to see him or know his name; it was 
quite enough that he was a Negro.—W. D. 
Hewells on “Mark Twain.” 


The World does not discuss the merits of this 
question, nor do we. We even agree that many 
concessions must be made to the prejudices of 
mankind, and that it may be true that any 
action that tends to create irritation between the 
races is unwise. But at the same time the Negro 
is a citizen, and it seems to us unfair to lay 
down a general rule the effect of which is to 
exclude him from office, without any regard 
whatever to his fitness. But the interesting thing 
about it all is that this action is that of a Re- 
publican President, the President of a party that 
has always professed great devotion to the Negro. 

-Indianapolis News. 














EDITORIAL 





THE CRISIS. 


HE object of this publication is t 
set forth those facts and arguments 
which show the danger of race 

prejudice, particularly as manifested to-day 
toward colored people. It takes its name 
from the fact that the editors believe that 
this is a critical time in the history of the 
advancement of men. Catholicity and tol- 
erance, reason and forbearance can to-day 
make the world-old dream of human broth- 
erhood approach realization; while bigotry 
and prejudice, emphasized race conscious- 
ness and force can repeat the awful his- 
tory of the contact of nations and groups 
in the past. We strive for this higher and 
broader vision of Peace and Good Will. 

The policy of THE Crisis will be 
simple and well defined: 

It will first and foremost be a news- 
paper: it will record important happenings 
and movements in the world which bear 
on the great problem of inter-racial rela- 
tions, and especially those which affect the 
Negro-American. 

Secondly, it will be a review of opinion 
and literature, recording briefly books, ar- 
ticles, and important expressions of opinion 
in the white and colored press on the race 
problem. 

thirdly, it will publish a few short 
articles. 

Finally, its editorial page will stand for 
the rights of men, irrespective of color or 
race, for the highest ideals of American 
democracy, and for reasonable but earnest 
and persistent attempt to gain these rights 
and realize these ideals. The magazine 
will be the organ of no clique or party 
end will avoid personal rancor of all sorts. 
'n the absence of proof to the contrary it 
will assume honesty of purpose on the par! 
»f all men, North and South, white anc 
black. 


Some people in Chicago, Philadelphia, 
Atlantic City, Columbus, O., and other 
Northern cities are quietly trying to estab- 
I'sh separate colored schools. This is 


10 





wrong, and should be resisted by black 
men and white. Human contact, human 
acquaintanceship, human sympathy is the 
great solvent of human problems. Sepa- 
rate school children by wealth and the re- 
sult is class misunderstanding and hatred. 
Separate them by race and the result is 
war. Separate them by color and they 
grow up without learning the tremendous 
iruth that it is impossible to judge the 
mind of a man by the color of his face. 
Is there any truth that America needs to 
learn more? Back of this demand for 
the segregation of black folk in public in- 
stitutions, or the segregation of Italians, 
or the segregation of any class, is almost 
always a shirking of responsibility on the 
part of the public—a desire to put off on 
somebody else the work of social uplift, 
while they themselves enjoy its results. 
Nobody pretends to deny that probably 
three-fourths of the colored children in the 
public schools of a great Northern city are 
below the average of their fellow students 
in some respects. They are, however, 
capable of improvement, and of rapid im- 
provement. This improvement can be car- 
ried on by the community. The com- 
munity can, however, if it is cowardly and 
selfish, shirk this responsibility and pile it 
on the shoulders of the Negroes represented 
by the one-fourth of Negro children who 
are above the average, or equal to it; and 
they can, if they are persistent, succeed in 
pushing back and possibly overwhelming a 
deserving and rising class of colored 
people. 

This is the history of color discrimina- 
tion in general in Philadelphia, New York 
and Chicago. When the discrimination 
comes in various lines of life, it doe: not 
bear simply on those who are not hurt by 
it—who do not feel it, and who by their 
position naturally fall outside the lines of 
discrimination, but it comes with crushing 
weight upon those other Negroes to whom 
the reasons for discrimination do not apply 
in the slightest respect, and they are thus 
made to bear a double burden. Further 
than this, when the discrimination is once 


EDITORIAL 11 


established, immediately the public provi- 
sions for the segregated portion become 
worse. If it is discrimination against poor 
people, then the schools for the poor peo- 
ple become worse than those for the rich— 
less well equipped and less well supervised. 
If it is discrimination against colored peo- 
ple, the colored school becomes poor, with 
less money and less means of efficiency 

The argument, then, for color discrim- 
ination in schools and in public institutions 
is an argument against democracy and an 
attempt to shift public responsibility from 
the shoulders of the public to the shoul- 
ders of some class who are unable to de- 
fend themselves. 


BALTIMORE. 


An inevitable step forward in anti- 
Negro prejudice is being taken in Balti- 
more, and threatened elsewhere. The 
colored folk of that city long ago became 
dissatished with a particularly bad system 
of alley homes. They saved their money 
and purchased nearly the whole length of 
Druid Hill avenue—one of the best col- 
ored streets in the world. Then they be- 
gan to expand into parallel streets, one of 
which was McCulloh. They had been 
told that ‘‘money talks,’’ and that the 
surest road to respect in America was 
financial success.. The result was inevita- 
ble. The white people of McCulloh 
street rose in indignation and are impor- 
tuning the City Council to pass an ordi- 
nance prohibiting colored people from “‘in- 
vading”’ white residential districts, and vice 
versa. ‘Their argument sounds strong: 
colored residents bring down the price of 
property, therefore get rid of colored resi- 
dents. 

Is this the real logic of the situation? 
Why do colored people depress property 
values> Because of an exaggerated and 
persistently encouraged racial prejudice. 
In the encouragement of such prejudice, 
Baltimore and Maryland have particularly 
sinned. Would not an attempt to allay 
prejudice be wiser than laws against thrift? 


VOTING. 


If there is one’ thing that should be 
urged upon colored voters throughout the 
United States this fall it is independence. 
No intelligent man should vote one way 
simply from habit. Only through care- 


ful scrutiny of candidates and policies can 
a man put himself in position to help rule 
one hundred million people. It is because 
of the suspicion that colored men are not 
capable of doing this, or are unwilling to 
do it, that so many American citizens 
acquiesce in the nullification of democracy 
known as disfranchisement. Let every 
colored man who can, vote; and whether 
he vote the Republican or Democratic or 
Socialist ticket, let him vote it, not because 
his father did or because he is afraid, but 
because after intelligent consideration he 
thinks the success of that ticket best for 
his people and his country. 


AGITATION. 
Ss 


Some good friends of the cause we 
represent fear agitation. They say: ‘Do 
not agitate—do not make a noise; work.” 
They. add, “Agitation is destructive or at 
best negative—what is wanted is positive 
constructive work.”’ 

Such honest critics mistake the function 
of agitation. A toothache is agitation. 
Is a toothache a good thing? No. Is 
it therefore useless? No. It is supremely 
useful, for it tells the body of decay, dys- 
pepsia and death. Without it the body 


would suffer unknowingly. It would 
think: All is well, when lo! danger 
lurks. 


The same is true of the Social Body. 
Agitation is a necessary evil to tell of the 
ills of the Suffering. Without it many 
a nation has been lulled to false security 
and preened itself with virtues it did not 
possess. 

The function of this Association is to 
tell this nation the crying evil of race 
prejudice. It is a hard duty but a neces- 
sary one—a divine one. It is Pain; Pain 
is not good but Pain is necessary. Pain 
does not aggravate disease — Disease 
causes Pain. Agitation does not mean 
Aggravation—Aggravation calls for Agi- 
tation in order that Remedy may be 
found. 


Two Italians were lynched in Florida. 
The Italian Government protested, but it 
was found that they were naturalized 
Americans. The inalienable right of 
every free American citizen to be lynched 
without tiresome investigation and penalties 
is one which the families of the lately 
deceased doubtless deeply appreciate. 











ane NW. A. A. C. P. 





N THE one hundredth anniversary of 

O Lincoln's birth a call was issued in New 

York signed by prominent people all 

over the country for a conference on the status 
of the colored people. 


The first conference met in New York May 
31 and June |, 1909. 


The second conference was held in New York 
May 12-14, 1910. 

The second conference organized a permanent 
body to be known as the National Association 
for the Advancement of Colored People. The 
officers of this association are: 

National President: Mr. Moorfield Storey, Bos- 
ton, Mass. 

Chairman of the Executive Committee: Mr 
Wm. English Walling, New York. 

Treasurer: Mr. John E. Milholland, New York. 

Disbursing Treasurer: Mr. Oswald Garrison 
Villard, New York. 

Director of Publicity and Research: Dr. W. E. 
B. DuBois, New York. 

Executive Secretary: Miss Frances Blascoer, 


New York. 


The work of the N. A. A. C. P. can be sum- 
marized as follows up to the present date: 

Four mass meetings and ten other meetings 
have been held to discuss the status of the colored 
people and efforts for betterment. 

One volume of speeches and 6,000 separate 
pieces of literature are being distributed. 

A bureau of information has been maintained 
which has corresponded with over 500 persons 
in all parts of the country. 

Six articles have been furnished to magazines 
and eight to newspapers. 

Two investigations into educational conditions 
are in progress. 

Effort has been made in three cases to secure 
legal redress of grievances. 

This Asso@iation needs $10,000 for its year's 
work. We ask for donations and we especially 
want members who pay from $1 to $25 yearly, 
according to ability. Anybody may join. 





The future plans of the organization include: 
The publication of THE Crisis. 


Co-operation with all agencies working for the 
uplift of colored people. 

The holding of mass meetings and conferences. 

The issuing of pamphlets at the rate of one 
every other month or oftener. 

The publication of articles in magazines and 
in the daily press. 

The discovering and redress of cases of injus- 
tice. 

The systematic study of the present conditions 
among colored people. 


The General Committee consists of the officers 
and the following persons: 


*Miss Gertrude Barnum, New York. 

*Rev. W. H. Brooks, New York. 

Prof. John Dewey, New York. 

Miss Maud R. Ingersoll, New York. 

Mrs. Florence Kelley, New York. 

*Mr. Paul Kennaday, New York 

*Mrs. F. R. Keyser, New York 

Dr. Chas. Lenz, New York. 

Mr. Jacob W. Mack, New York. 

*Mrs. M. D. MacLean, New York 

Rev. Horace G. Miller, New York. 

Mrs. Max Morgenthau, Jr., New York. 
Mr. James F. Morton, Jr., New York. 
Mr. Henry Moskowitz, New York. 

Miss Leonora O'Reilly, New York. 

*Rev. A. Clayton Powell, New York. 
*Mr. Charles Edward Russell, New York. 
Mr. Jacob H. Schiff, New York 

Prof. E. R. A. Seligman, New York. 
*Rev. Joseph Silverman, New York. 

Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, New York. 
Mrs. Henry Villard, New York. 

Miss Lillian D. Wald, New York. 
*Bishop Alexander Walters, New York. 
Dr. Stephen S. Wise, New York. 

Rev. Jas. E. Haynes, D.D., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
*Rev. John Haynes Holmes, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss M. R. Lyons, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
*Miss M. W. Ovington, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
*Dr. O. M. Waller, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Mrs. M. H. Talbert, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Hon. Thos. M. Osborne, Auburn, N. Y. 
*Mr. W. L. Bulkley, Ridgewood, N. J. 
Mr. George W. Crawford, New Haven, Conn. 
Miss Maria Baldwin, Boston, Mass. 

Mr. Francis J. Garrison, Boston, Mass. 
Mr. Archibald H. Grimke, Boston, Mass. 
*Mr. Albert E. Pillsbury, Boston, Mass. 
Mr. Wm. Munroe Trotter, Boston, Mass. 
Dr. Horace Bumstead, Brookline, Mass. 
Miss Elizabeth C. Carter, New Bedford, Mass. 
Prest. Chas. T. Thwing, Cleveland, O. 
Mr. Chas. W. Chesnutt, Cleveland, O. 





Executive Committee 


(Continued on next page.) 









Athens and 


By Moorfield Storey 


Brownsville 


(Extract from speech before the Second National Negro Conference.) 


WHi:TE SOLDIERS AT ATHENS. 


We cannot perhaps wonder that ordinary citi- 
zens make race distinctions when they are made 
by the President of the United States. In the 
autumn of 1904, at Athens, Ohio, soldiers be- 
longing to the 14th Battery of Artillery in the 
regular army altempted to break open the jail 
in order to rescue a comrade who had been 
arrested for some offense. In the attempt they 
killed one militiaman and wounded at least two 
others. 1 quote from a letter written by General 
Grosvenor, the Republican Congressman from the 
district, to Mr. Taft, then Secretary of War, thus 
summing up the facts: 

“Fifty to seventy men marched into the most 
public street in a village like this in the early 
hours of a pleasant summer evening, and without 
the slightest provocation, meeting the provost 
guard, fired from 50 to 75 shots from loaded 
weapons, killing one, wounding two, and hitting 
a citizen, and firing into the corridors and walls 
of a building, and yet all this has been obliterated 
as though the waves of the ocean had swept 
through sand. And not only that, but the Gov- 
ernment officials—a representative of the War 
Department bearing a commission, and a Deputy 
United States District Attorney—appeared in the 
town and manipulated the preliminary examina- 
tion of witnesses and boldly denounced the prose- 
cution. And we are powerless, and the blood of 
Clark, a fine young man * * * will go un- 
avenged because of the interference of the United 
States through its officials.” 

One soldier was sentenced to a year in the 
penitentiary and another was fined. There was 
no other punishment. The action of the War 
Department was taken by order of the Acting 
Secretary, and from the letter written by Secre- 
tary Taft in reply to General Grosvenor, the 
following extract is made: 

“IT should think it doubtful policy on the part 
of the Government to direct its officers to defend 
enlisted men against acts which, as charged, are 


certainly offences against the state, unless there 
is some ground to presume that the acts are in 
the discharge of lawful duties of the enlisted 
men. The action of the Acting Secretary of 
War, however, was based on the helplessness of 
the men, and the necessity that no matter how 
guilty a man is he is entitled to be defended by 
counsel. It probably would have been wiser had 
application been made to court for the assign- 
ment of counsel. Still, an enlisted man is more 
or less a ward of the Government, and if the 
Government steps in merely to see that he is tried 
according to law, it seems to me that it is an 
exercise of a discretion which the Government 
has.” 

Here the -facts were clear, but the guilty men 
were while. 


NEGRO SOLDIERS AT BROWNSVILLE. 


Two years later it is charged that some soldiers 
of the 25th Infantry fired into the town of 
Brownsville, Texas. No evidence fixing the guilt 
upon any one has ever been found, and though 
investigation has been had, it remains doubtful 
whether any of the soldiers, and if so, who 
fired the shots. The whole battalion has for 
years maintained its innocence. Yet the colored 
soldiers, each presumably innocent, were dis- 
charged without trial, and the act has since 
persistently and violently been defended by its 
author. Theodore Roosevelt was President in 
1904, as well as in 1906. Why did he not 
apply the same rvle in both cases? He who 
from an eminence some distance off saw the 
colored troops charge and carry San Juan Hill, 
knew that they could fight and die as well as 
their white comrades. What became of Mr. 
Taft's doctrine, “That no matter how guilty a 
man is, he is entitled to be defended by coun- 
sel.” Why were the Brownsville soldiers not 
“wards of the Government” as well as the sol- 
diers who fired on Athens? The soldiers of 


Brownsville were colored. 





(Continued from opposite page.) 
Prest. King, Oberlin, O. 
Prest. W. S. Scarborough, Wilberforce, O. 
*Miss Jane Addams, Chicago, Ili 
*Mrs. Ida B. Wells Barnett, Chicago, Ill. 
*Dr. C. E. Bentley, Chicago, Ill. 
Miss Sophronisba Breckenridge, Chicago, Ill. 
Mr. Clarence Darrow, Chicago, III. 
*Mrs. Celia Parker Woolley, Chicago, Ill. 
*Dr. N. F. Mossell, Philadelphia, Pa. 
*Dr. Wm. A. Sinclair, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Miss Susan Wharton, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mr. R. R. Wright, Jr., Philadelphia, Pa. 





Mr. W. Justin Carter, Harrisburg, Pa. 

Rev. Harvey Johnson, D.D., Baltimore, Md. 
Hon. Wm. S. Bennett, Washington, D. C. 
Mr. L. M. Hershaw, Washington, D. C. 
Prof. Kelly Miller, Washington, D. C. 

Prof. L. B. Moore, Washington, D. C. 
Justice W. P. Stafford, Washington, D. C. 
*Mrs. Mary Church Terrell, Washington, D. C. 
*Rev. J. Milton Waldron, Washington, D. C. 
Prest. John Hope, Atlanta, Ga. 

Mr. Leslie P. Hill, Manassas, Va. 


*Executive Committee. 











THE BURDEN 


STEVE GREEN'S STORY. 


Steve Green was born in Tennessee in 1862. 
He has never been to school a day, and has 
worked for his living since childhood. He mar- 
ried and settled in Arkansas, choosing a place 
where there was good schooling for his children. 
What befell him there is told in his own words: 

“In 1910 the landlord, Mr. Saddler, raised the 
rent from $5 an acre to $9. I and all of the 
other tenants moved away. Mr. Saddler sent 
after me, and said that if I did not woik for 
him | could not work in Crittenden County. | 
mo ed to a place a mile away, but after the 
death of my wife started to break up house- 
keeping. Meantime I hired out for a day to a 
neighbor, when Mr. Saddler rode by on his 
horse. He said, Green, didn't I tell you that 
if you didn't work on my farm that there was 
not room enough in Crittenden County for you 
and me to live?’ I said, “Yes, sir; you told me 
so. He answered, ‘] meant just what | said,’ 
and d.ew his revolver. I ran, but he shot me 
in the neck, left arm and right leg. I kept on 
running and reached my house, got my Winches- 
ter and shot at him. They say that | killed him. 
The othe:s still chased me and | jumped into the 
river. I stayed in the top of a tree until mid- 
night. Then I got some cartridges from a col- 
o.ed man and went to a town some miles away, 
which took me three nights to walk, wading in 
creeks because of the b.oodhounds. My friends 
brought me food and blankets and | stayed on 
an island in the Mississippi River three weeks. 
Coloied friends gave me $32, and I trav- 
eled on foot and by rail to Chicago, arriving 
August 12. I was betrayed by a colored friend 
who told the police. The policeman arrested me, 
saying that I had stolen some ties, which I 
knew nothing about. He took me to the Har- 
rison street station. For four days they gave me 
no food or drink. I ate two boxes of matches 
trying to kill myself. They kept questioning me 
about Arkansas. At last I took sick and they 
put me in the hospital, where the doctor toid 
them I was starving, and they gave me something 
to eat. Finally Saddler’s nephew came and | 
was identified, and Sunday night we left for 
Arkansas. He said a thousand people were wait- 
ing to burn me. The colored people of Chicago 
had heard of the story and got out a writ of 
habeas corpus. They offered a reward of $100 
to the sheriff who would reach me and tele- 
gaphed all along the line to catch me. The 
sheriff of Cairo got me just as we were nearing 
the line. He is the man who replaced the for- 
mer sheriff—the one the Governor held responsi- 
ble for the mob in that city. I was stopped and 
sent back to Chicago.” 

Steve Green's friends have engaged lawyers 
and are fighting his case for him. The outcome 
of their efforts to save this unfortunate man will 


be recorded in THE CrRrisis. 


THE PINK FRANKLIN CASE. 


Pink Franklin, a colored man, was charged 
with breaking his labor contract. The labor 
contract law of South Carolina says that a 
farm laborer who leaves his job before the end 
of the year owing his employer, is guilty of a 
criminal offense and may be severely punished. 
In the dead of night the constab.e broke into 
Pink Franklin's house, shot at him and wounded 
him. Franklin could not see wao was shooting 
and had no means of knowing tnal it was an 
oficer of the law. He leapt from bed and 
returned the fire, killing the constable. 

He was arrested for murder, threatened with 
lynching and condemned to be hanged. Two 
colored lawyers defended him and appealed 
finally to the Supreme Court of the United 
States. The Supreme Court gave no relief and 
Pink Franklin still lies under sentence of death. 
Effort is now being made to induce the Governor 
of South Carolina te reprieve him. 


She was a well-educated, altractive colored 
teacher. 

“Some people,” she said, “think Charleston to 
be the prettiest city in the Southland. The houses 
are big and cool with lovely gardens. And then 
there is a park. You ought to see it! I don't 
believe any park could be prettier. 

“I have only seen it once,” she went on. “I 
did want to visit that park before I left Charles- 
ton, so I asked one of the white Northern ladies 

we were teaching in the same school—if she 
would take me there. She was the right kind, and 
we walked all through it. Of course every one 
thought I was her maid. It certainly was a 
pretty place.” 

“But why should the colored people of 
Charleston,” I asked, “be deprived of a public 
place of recreation? Don't they contribute to 
the city by their work and rent and taxes?” 

“They certainly do,” she replied, ‘but that 
makes no difference. The park I visited is a 
white folks’ park. It is very beautiful and so 
they keep it to themselves. Do you know,” she 
added, thoughtfully, “I don't believe they would 
be happy there among the trees and flowers if 
they thought people who were poor and black 
could get in.” 


A Chicago schoolboy, claiming that a twenty- 
five-cent piece had been stolen from him, accused 
the only colored boy in the class, who was sus- 
pended. The quarter was subsequently found 
where the owner had carelessly placed it and 
forgotten it, but the teacher made no mention 
of this. The colored boy's mother came to 
inquire into the matter after several days and 
protested against the accusation. “You shouldn't 
mind so much,” said the teacher. ‘You know it 
is a common saying that colored people are 
dishonest.” 


14 


— ——., 


re wameme=aF+ShlUC<CFT CO 


a a a a 


> 


QW 


Lo 


blic 


to 


that 
sa 

so 
she 
yuld 
s if 
lack 


nty- 
ised 
sus- 
und 
and 
tion 
> to 
and 
ldn't 
w it 

are 








WHAT TO READ 


AFRICA. 


Railway and Engineering Progress. J. H. Knight, 
Eng. M., April. 

Stanley’s Africa; Then and Now. J. M. Hub- 
bard, Atlantic, March. 

Diana in Africa. Helene, Duchess of Aosta, 
Harper's Weekly, March 12, April 30, May 7, 
August 6, August 20. 

Housekeeping in Africa. I. V. Simonton, De- 
lineator, April. 

Can Africa Be Christianized? A. W. Holsey, 
Missionary Review, June. 

Feasts of the Heathen Shambalas. Dupre, Mis- 
sionary Review, March. 

Rise of the Natives. H.H. Johnston, Quarterly 
Review, January. 

Slavery as It Exists To-day. T. Buxton, Mis- 
sionary Review, June. 

Exploring Tour in West Africa. W. M. Dager, 
Missionary Review, January. 

Purification of Blood in West Africa. W. M. 
Dager, Missionary Review, January. 


Liberia and the Powers. Living Age, June 25. 


AMERICA. 


American Negro as a Political Factor. Kelly 
Miller, Nineteenth Century, August. 

Brave Sheriff. Outlook, March 5. 

Discussing the Negro Problem. Nation, May 19. 

Grandfather Clause in Oklahoma. Outlook, 
June 18. 

Negro Property. W. E. B. DuBois, World 
To-day, August. 

New Disfranchisement Plan. Independent, 
March 31. 

Noteworthy Book on Negroes. Roosevelt, Out- 
look, June 4. 

Racial Conflict in America. Living Age, July 
39. 

Alcohol and the African. L. Probyn, Nine- 
teenth Century, June. 

Story of the Negro. Review, Survey, May 28. 

Closing the Little Black Schoolhouse. M. W. 
Ovington, Survey, May 28. 

Educate Six Million Negro Children. B. T. 
Washington, World's Work, June. 

Jeanes Fund. M. W. Ovington, Survey, Janu- 
ary 29. 

University Education for Negroes. B. T. 
Washington, Independent, March 24. 

Negro in Cincinnati. F. W. Quillan, Indepen- 
dent, February 24. 

Burden of the White Taxpayers. Independent, 
March 10. 

Democratic Split in the South. Independent, 
May 26. 

Negro and Agricultural Development. A. H. 
Stone, Annals American Academy, January. 
Negro Suffrage in Maryland. Outlook, April 16. 
Negro’s Part in Southern Development. B. T. 
Washington, Annals American Academy, 

January. 


Nullification in Maryland. Nation, April 7. 


Race Rioter (Story). H. M. Lyon, American 
Magazine, February. 

Southern Question. W. G. Brown, Nation, 
August 4. 

Suffrage in Maryland. Independent, April 21. 

Kinks in the Negro’s Hair. J. M. Boddy, 
Scientific American, April 30. 

Position of the Negro Among Human Races. 
Current Literature, September. 

Position of the Negro and Pigmy Among Hu- 
man Races. A. Keith, Nature, July 14. 

Souls of White Folk. W. E. B. DuBois, 
Independent, August 18. 

With a Cargo of Biack Ivory. A. Edwards, 
Harper's Weekly, July 2. 

Negro and Religion. H. H. Johnston, Nine- 
teenth Century, June (Current Literature, 
August). 

Marvel of Brownsville. H. Bumstead, Inde- 
pendent, May 12. 

Decadence of the Plantation System. U. B. 
Phillips, Annals American Academy, January. 

Slavery in Virginia. S. T. C. Bryan, Nation, 
May 12. 

Slave's Reminiscence of Slavery. M. W. Oving- 
ton, Independent, May 26. 

Liberia and the United States. Outlook, May 7. 

Negro Suffrage in a Democracy. Ray S. Baker, 
Atlantic, November. 

Chapters from My Experience. B. T. Washing- 
ton, World's Work, October. 

Marrying of Black Folk. W. E. B. DuBois, 
Independent, October 13. 

The Lady of the Slave States. E. J. Put- 
man. Atlantic, October. 


A long awaited and striking evidence of earn- 
est and deep-seated interest in race questions is 
the appearance of a new quarterly at Clark 
University, Worcester, Mass. It is known as the 
“Journal of Race Development,” and is devoted 
to a scientific discussion of the primitive races. 
It is edited by Professor Blakeslee, and the edi- 

, tor of THE Crisis is a contributing editor. 


RECENT BOOKS 

O. G. Villard—John Brown; a Biography, Fifty 
Years After. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 

Lindsay Swift—William Lloyd Garrison. G. W. 
Jacobs & Co. 

M. J. Moses—The Literature of the South. T. 
W. Crowell. 

T. Roosevelt—African Game Trails. Scribner. 

Herbert Ward—A Voice from the Congo. 
Scribner. 

1. A. Wright—Cuba. Macmillan. 

B. D. Comyn—Service and Sport in the Sudan. 
John Lane. 

C. H. Stogan—To Abyssinia. Lippincott. 

G. Lagden—The Basutos. Appleton. 

Duke of Mecklinburg—In the Heart of Africa. 
Cassell. 

H. L. Tangye—In the Torrid Soudan. Badger. 


15 








16 THE CRISIS 


Bact 
millan. 

South African Folk Tales. Baker & Taylor. 

Handbook of the Interscholastic Athletic Ass« 
ciation of the Middle Atlantic States W.A. 
Joiner and E. B. Henderson. 

E. Dayrell—Folk Stories from Southern Nigeria. 
Longmans, Green & Co. 

Publications of the Nationa! Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People—No. l, 
The Disfranchisement of Negroes, Rev. John 


Weale The Conflict of Color Mac 


Marshalls Hotel 


ADVERTIS! 

Haynes Holn Second and Higher 
Education in the South for Whites and Ne- 
groes, Dr. Horace Bumstead 

Race Prejudice. Document No. 77, Republican 
Club, New York. 

H. W. Odum. Social and Mental Traits of the 
Negro. Columbia University. 


William = Archer. 
Chapman & Hall. 
Sir Harry Johnston. 


World. 


Through Afro - America. 


The Negro in the New 
Methuen & Co. 


127-129 West 53d Street 


Telephones 4693-4694 Columbus 


The Leading Colored Restaurant in America 
Cuisine Unsurpassed. Everything Up to date 


Shell Fish a Specialty 


Restaurant Open All Night 





Mue. Beck's School of Dressmaking 


THE LATEST, BEST AND MOST 
MODERN METHODS TAUGHT 


F ancy Work, Flowers, Etc. 


238 WEST 53d STREET, NEW YORK CITY 





I MAKE CIGARS 


VACUUM CLEANING 
By the NEW YORK CAREFUL CLEANING BUREAU 


Cleaners and Renovaters for Particular People) 
MEANS COMPETENT WORKMEN 
AND SATISFIED PATRONS 


We clean anything from a rug to a private house. Anything— 
by the hour, the day, the job or contract. Drop a card to 


12 WEST 135th STREET 


59 West 133d Street, New York 
Havana and Domestic Cigars 


Box Trade a Specialty 
OSCAR SCHEIN 


Manufacturer of 


FINE HAVANA CIGARS 
Ferdinand de Alba and La Panilla Brands a Specialty 
Salesroom and Factory, Lenox Ave. and 127th St. 
Branches: 504 Lenox Ave., 1488 Broadway 


Telephone 662 Harlem 





Wilson House 


F. C. HOLMES, Proprietor 


TELEPHONE 3067 


Neatly Furnished Rooms 


261-263 West 54th St., New York 
COLUMBUS 





THE 


INSTANT RELIEF ASSOCIATION 


Incorporated. 


COMMERCIAL TRUST Ss 


A Sick. Accident and Death Benefit. J 


Telephone 
7189 Morningside 


Porcelain, Crown and 
Bridge Work a Specialty 


DR. JAMES A. BANKS 
Dentist 


204 WEST 1330 STREET. NEW YORK 


G, JERSEY CITY, N. J 


. WATKINS, Secretary, 1931 BROADWAY, N. Y. 


Ten Years with 
Dr. D. C. White 


Pure Nitrous-Oxide 
Gas Administered 


THE CRISIS ADVERTISER | 7 


Can’t See Well? See Me | Only Colored Dairy Lunch in New York 


wher eyes feel painful, hot, uncomfortable 
Ww weary while reading, writing, sewing 


at near objects, letters run together Rose’s Dairy Lunch 


while re adi ng and become blurred. 
J. W. ROSE, Proprietor 


34 West 135TH STREET 


New York City 
Eyes examined by me and fitted with glasses BETWEEN FIFTH AND LENOX AVENUES 


accurately made neve r grow weary, but are per- 

ie Dut do you Tike headaches, red eyes and NEAT, CLEAN AND 
th itincminee QUICK SERVICE 
Dr. R. G. ADAMS, Reeiauiiies Open Day and Night 


Physical Eye Specialist ; ; * 
16 West 134th Street, New York City, N. y. | Everything Strictly First Class and Up to Date 


NYANZA DRUG CO.} NYANZA PHARMACY 


(Incorporated. ) 








» } 
or lo 











is the only colored Drug Store in New York City, and 


35 W. 135th ST., NEW YORK CITY the purpose of the Corporation is to establish ch tins of 
stores, carrying Drugs and everything incidental to the 

CAPITAL STOCK, $15,000 Drug business It is really the indisputable duty of 
Shares $5.00 every self-respecting member of the race to give it his 


is 2 on ‘ s rt. 
Write for information. The best paying eee 


investment ever offered our people. AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE 


$100,000 STOCK ISSUE 


TO BUILD AN 


Auditorium in Greater New York 


CONTAINING 


Reception, Concert and Banquet Halls, Modern Offices and Lodge Rooms 


This proposition is bound to succeed, because it is giving the people what they want. 
We are offering 


10,000 Shares at $10 Each, Par Value 


Stock sold in blocks to suit the investor on easy terms. 
The capital already in hand and the rapid increase of business means the realization of the 
Auditorium This enterprise assures each investor Safety of Capital and Growth of Income. 
Call or write for further particulars. 


I. L. MOORMAN, Mgr., 83 W. 134th St. 
ALLEN’S CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT 80° Fishth Ays~. Bet, .48h and 49th 


Sts. Telephone Bryant 2535 
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’ s CLOTHING CLEANED 


Valet service, pressing. scouring, dyeing. repairing and altering neatly done. Suits sponged 
and pressed whiJe you wait Hats cleaned, blocked aed retrimmed. Goods called for and delivered 


Does This Interest You? High-Grade Work at Reasonable Prices 





ROBERT N. WOOD 


Printer 
202 EAST 99h ST., NEW YORK 





TELEPHONE 6667 LENOX 


WE BOTH MAKE MONEY IF YOU DEAL WITH ME 








THE CRISIS ADVERTISER 


STANDARDIZE 


ONS ATE EEE 


L.C. Smith & Bros. 
Typewriter 















(ALL THE WRITING 
ALWAYS IN SIGHT) 


“<a 


il i 








Mill 





The DuPont Powder Company of Wilmington, 
Del., the most prominent manufacturers of explo- 
sives for Government and private use in the world, 
purchased on a single order— 


52 L. C. Smith & Bros. 
‘Typewriters 


To Standardize their equipment, acting on unanimous recommendation 
of a board of five of their mechanical engineers, to whom all competing 
makes were submitted. 


It will pay you to standardize your typewriter equipment with the 
L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter for the same reason that decided this 
shrewd, hard-headed business corporation—superior merit of the machine! 


And the reason holds good whether you use one typewriter or five 
hundred. 


Write To-day for the Free Book. 


L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO. 
SYRACUSE, N. Y., AND ALL LARGE CITIES 


THE CRISIS ADVERTISER 


Do You Want 
a Position? 


Best Places 
Best Families 


The New York and New Jersey 
Industrial Exchange, through its 
Employment Agency Department, 
furnishes more Colored Help to 
the leading families in the city 
and in the suburban towns than 
any other medium in New York. 

It is located in the acknowledged 
best section of the city, being in 
the Henry Phipps’ Model Tene- 
ments for Colored Families. No 
other Exchange is so well patron- 
ized by the foremost families, 
many of whom have never em- 
ployed Colored Help before. 

Our demand for competent 
Southern Help exceeds the supply 
many times over. Call and regis- 
ter. No charge. Bring your ref- 
erences. We can place you in a 
good position. If inconvenient to 
pay our required office fee, you are 
at liberty to take advantage of our 
Credit System. This new feature 
has proven extremely beneficial to 
many worthy persons seeking em- 
ployment. 


N.Y.&N. J. Industrial Exchange 
ae Sue Ss Soot 
Telephones 5016-4546 Columbus ay ware Mooel TENCHENTS Coton Farnues 





¢ 
od 
td 
é 
a 
# 
id 
ad 
a 
a 
cod 
ad 
rad 
a 
od 
a 
cd 
re) 
a 
oA 
7 
a“ 
ow 
y 
o~ 
~ 
Ae 
cal 
os 
co 
oy 
ay 
a] 


(oon RET | 











Cosmopolitan Automobile School 


The aim of the School will be to 
give its students a sufficient knowl 
edge of the theory and practice of 
Automobile and Automobiling to en 
able them to meet the emergencies 
that constantly arise to make those 
who complete the course competent 
to run machines, take them apart 
and assemble them properly, and to 
make such repairs as may be neces- 
sary and possible on the road. 

TUITION—Six weeks’ course, in- 
cluding Shop and Road Work, $25; 
installments if you wish, payable $5 
on enrollment and $20 by the com- 
pletion of the fourth week. 

SHOP WORK—Consists of nam- 
ing all the parts of the automobile, 
taking the engine and the rest of 
the automobile apart and putting 
them together again properly, and 
making such repairs as may be 
necessary and possible. 

ROAD WORK—When the shop 
work is complete the student takes 
up the operating and handling of 
cars on the road until he is com- 
petent 

If there is any special informa- 


tion which you desire respecting the 
course or opportunities in the automobile business we shall be glad to hear from you. 


COSMOPOLITAN AUTO CO. of New York 


Telephone 803 Columbus School: Hotel Maceo, 213 West 53d St. LEE A. POLLARD, Mer. 





THE CRISIS ADVERTISER 


The New York Negro as a Tenant 


Every Negro resident of New York City prior to the year 1900 remembers too 
well the great difficulty always experienced in trying to find anything like a decent place 
to live. Never before this time was the question of “How much rent shall we pay?” 
anything like as important as “Where can we live?” 

The Negro as a tenant was wanted nowhere except in the very poorest section of 
the city and there only in such houses as were so run down that even the poorest 
of whites refused to longer occupy them. In these houses Negroes were crowded 
together without any regard for their health or morals. Here they were bullied and 
even insulted by independent landlords, who were very careful to do little or nothing 
for their erstwhile not wanted tenants except to squeeze from them every dollar of 
rent possible. 

This was a “condition, not a theory,” that we faced when in October, 1900, we 
opened our office as the first Negro Real Estate Agents in New York City, making a 
specialty of the management of colored tenement property. Our very best friends all 
told us that we were attempting the impossible, that we could not succeed, that we 
would starve in our undertaking. For the first-year and a half they proved to be 
prophets indeed. Our many disappointments, heartaches and actual sufferings during 
this period would fill a book and read like a romance. Every one could teil us how we 
could NOT make it, but none how we could. 

We were real estate agents making a specialty of the management of colored 
tenement property for nearly a year before we actually succeeded in getting a colored 
tenement to manage. Our first opportunity occurred in West 134th Street as a result 
of a dispute between two landlords. To “get even” one of them turned his house over 
to us to fill with colored tenants. We were so very successful in renting and managing 
this house that, after a time, we were able to induce other landlords in whose houses 
vacancies had occurred due to the opening of this house for colored people, to make 
the change and give us their property to manage. 

This was the beginning of the turning over to Negro tenants of one of the very 
best sections of Manhattan Island and in no part of the city are there any better built 
or more modern tenements for any class of people than are now occupied by Negroes 
in this section. By opening for colored tenants first a house in one block, and then a 
house in another, we have finally succeeded in securing for the colored people of New 
York over 250 first-class flats and private dwellings in a fine section of the city, con- 
veniently located as to transportation facilities, etc. 

To this extent our ambition has been gratified. There is, however, more work to 
be done in another direction before we shall be entirely satisfied with the condition of 
the Negro tenancy in this great city. We feel that our personal experience both as a 
Negro tenant and a landlord has peculiarly fitted us for the work. Dr. Booker T. 
Washington in his latest book, “The Negro in Business,” says: “Mr. Payton has had 
an opportunity during this time to learn something of the condition under which colored 
tenants live, sometimes are compelled to live, in New York. Stranger than all else, he 
was, as he has confessed to me, several times put out of houses, bag and baggage, for 
inability to pay his rent. He has thus been able to see how an ejectment suit looks 
from both the point of view of tenant and of landlord.” 

There is every reason why colored tenement property should be managed by Negro 
agents. From them, the tenant may be certain of receiving more real interest, sympathy 
and respect. Were the Negroes to demand it to-day, at least 90 per cent. of the 
colored tenements in this city could be controlled by agents of their own race. This 
would not only be of benefit to the tenant but to the entire race. 

Tell your landlord that you prefer to have your rent collected by a Negro agent. 
In this manner you will be aiding your people in their struggle for commercial advance- 
ment. You owe it to your race to do this. 


DESIRABLE APARTMENTS FOR DESIRABLE TENANTS 


Philip A. Payton, Jr., Company 


New York’s Pioneer Negro Real Estate Agents 
BROKERS — APPRAISERS 


67 West 134th St, New York City 


TELEPHONES 917-918 HARLEM 





Fes oe 


ae 5? 





